Remember me·Forgot password?Get instant updates from your friends, industry experts, favorite celebrities, and what's happening around the world.What is Twitter? Learn more.Full text of Donald Trump's f (see Appendix A: A Review of the Literature on Legalization and Earnings, and also this report’s methodology section for more information on the wage effects of granting legal status to the entire undocumented population).[15] “Economic Impact of S. 744, Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act.” Congressional Budget Office, Congressional Budget Office, Jun. 2013, www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/113th-congress-2013-2014/reports/44346-Immigration.pdf.Washington, DC Office1616 P Street, NW Suite 200 Washington, DC 20036Phone: 202-299-1066Fax: 202-299-1065e-mail: [email protected]Subscribe to ITEP's Email DigestITEP's Email Digestview »view »Meg WieheMisha HillRead as PDF (Includes Appendices of State-by-State Data)IntroductionThe Trump administration’s immigration policies have broken apart families and removed established members of communities. The administration’s disregard for the contributions of immigrants, regardless of their legal status, is of real concern for young immigrants whose parents brought them to the United States as children. Many of those young immigrants qualify for deferred deportation action and legal work authorization under Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), a 2012 executive order under President Barack Obama.In September 2017, President Trump used his executive powers to order the rescission of DACA on March 5, 2018 unless Congress enacted permanent protections. Trump’s executive action was met by multiple lawsuits from state attorneys general and other parties that would be economically injured if DACA recipients lost their protections or were deported. Before the March 5 deadline, two federal rulings prevented the termination of the program but the administration did not have to accept new applications or renewals.On April 24, 2018, a federal judge ordered that the administration must reinstate the program and begin accepting new applications and renewals—the administration has 90 days to respond. The legal status of the young people eligible for and currently enrolled in DACA is very much in flux.More than 1.3 million out of the 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the United States are eligible for DACA. As of January 2018, more than 682,000 individuals were enrolled in the program.[i] DACA offers eligible teenagers and young adults who were brought to the United States as children outside of their control temporary deferral from deportation and legal work authorization.[ii]  US Customs and Immigration Services (USCIS) releases quarterly updates of DACA population estimates. These most recently available figures are smaller than previous estimates because they exclude former DACA enrollees who are now legal permanent residents, those who did not reapply, and those whose reapplication was denied. Additionally, the Trump administrations’ rescission of DACA and the ongoing court cases have prevented and discouraged eligible DACA recipients from applying or reapplying. At this time, the most important population to consider is the total eligible population of 1.3 million Dreamers as this group will be most impacted by future decisions relating to DACA. This report will use the term Dreamers to refer to the combined population of young immigrants who are enrolled in DACA and those who are eligible for DACA but not enrolled.DACA enrollment has helped young immigrants become more engaged in their communities. A national survey of DACA enrollees in 2017 found that more than 50 percent of respondents secured their first job after enrollment in DACA, and nearly 70 percent landed a job with better pay. DACA enrollment also allowed 65 percent of respondents to pursue educational opportunities that were previously unavailable to them, and more than 70 percent of respondents hold a bachelor’s degree or higher.[iii]The 1.3 million Dreamers eligible for deferred action contribute tax dollars to communities that help pay for schools, public infrastructure, and other services. Their contributions could be increased by taking steps to ensure that all individuals eligible for deferred action are enrolled, or even by offering a path to citizenship. Conversely, stripping their temporary lawful status or deporting them would decrease their tax contributions and deprive our country of a dedicated and diverse generation.An ITEP report from March 2017 found the 11 million undocumented immigrants living and working in the United States contribute more than $11.74 billion in state and local taxes.[iv] This report specifically examines the state and local tax contributions of undocumented immigrants who are currently enrolled or immediately eligible for DACA and the fiscal implications of various policy changes. The report includes information on the national impact (Chart 1) and provides a state-by-state breakdown (Appendices 1 and 2).Key Findings How Dreamers Contribute to State and Local RevenueQuestions have frequently been raised about the taxes paid by undocumented immigrants. Everyone living and working in the U.S. contributes to state and local taxes, regardless of their immigration status. We all pay sales and excise taxes when we purchase goods and services, such as clothing or gasoline. We all pay property taxes either directly for our homes or indirectly as renters.DACA provides young immigrants with work authorization and recipients are subject to the same state and local personal income tax laws as all lawfully present workers. Additionally, DACA recipients have (temporary) Social Security numbers. Thus, it is reasonable to assume that working DACA recipients file and pay state and local income taxes just like any other working American. As ITEP’s 2017 report demonstrated, about half of undocumented immigrants of all ages file income tax returns. They do this using Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers (ITINs) in the absence of having valid Social Security numbers. Therefore we assume that young immigrants who are eligible for but not enrolled in DACA comply with income tax law at a similar rate.The tax revenues generated by DACA recipients are further boosted by the fact that DACA status boosts employment rates and wages. A national survey of DACA recipients found that employment rates increased by 127 percent after enrollment, from 44 percent of respondents employed to 91 percent.[vii]  Evidence also shows that relief from deportation and temporary work permits through programs like DACA also boosts undocumented immigrants’ wages by at least 8.5 percent. When given the opportunity to work legally and a reprieve from deportation DACA recipients are able to work more, earn more wages, and are less likely to be victims of wage theft from unscrupulous employers.Based on this evidence, we assume that 91 percent of the 682,000 young immigrants currently enrolled in DACA are employed, and that they are earning, on average, 8.5 percent more than the estimated 643,000 young people eligible for but not receiving DACA. The higher earnings, higher employment rate, and higher tax compliance rate of individuals enrolled in DACA leads to their increased tax contributions and higher effective tax rate compared to those eligible for but not receiving DACA. The total contributions of all Dreamers who are currently receiving or eligible for DACA status is over $1.7 billion in state and local taxes annually. If all eligible individuals were enrolled in DACA, those state and local tax contributions would increase by more than $815 million due to higher earnings, higher employment rate, and 100 percent tax compliance for all DACA eligible immigrants (see Table 1).In contrast, failing to maintain work authorizations and deportation relief of DACA would hurt state and local coffers. If the 682,000 young immigrants currently enrolled lost the protections of DACA, it would reduce their state and local tax contributions by nearly $700 million (see Table 1).ConclusionEvery state benefits from the tax contributions of young undocumented immigrants, but every state has much more to lose if we remove the protections and work authorization granted to these young people. On average, DACA recipients were only 6 years old when they were brought to this country. DACA recipients are part of the American family and over 70 percent have a U.S. citizen spouse, child, or sibling.[viii] Dreamers are our neighbors, classmates, and co-workers, and they have called this country home for most of their lives.  In its attempt to rescind DACA and increased detention and deportation enforcement, the Trump administration has broken a promise America made with these young people. If the Trump administration continues on this path, the nation risks forcing Dreamers back into the shadows and losing the economic and societal contributions these engaged young people are making in our communities.MethodologyITEP estimates the state and local tax contributions of DACA-eligible immigrants under different policy options through the methodology detailed below.This is a very conservative estimate. A 2017 nationally representative survey found the average annual income of working DACA recipients to be $36,231 while their average annual income prior to enrollment was $20,068. This represents an 81% increase in wages.[xiii]ITEP’s microsimulation computer model is a sophisticated program that applies the state and local tax laws in each state (including sales, excise, income, and property tax laws) to a statistically valid database of tax returns to generate estimates of the effective tax rates paid by taxpayers at various income levels under state and local tax law in place as of December 31, 2014. In January of 2015, ITEP released the 5th edition of Who Pays? which estimates the effect of the state and local tax laws as of January 2015 on taxpayers at 2012 income levels. This report applies effective tax rates calculated in the 2015 Who Pays? report to the DACA eligible population.The following assumptions were made to calculate the sales and excise, income, and property taxes of the undocumented immigration population:[i] “Approximate Active DACA Recipients as of January 31, 2018.” United States Citizenship and Immigration Services(USCIS), https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Resources/Reports%20and%20Studies/Immigration%20Forms%20Data/All%20Form%20Types/DACA/DACA_Population_Data_Jan_31_2018.pdf[ii] Batalova, Jeanne, et al. “DACA at the Two-Year Mark: A National and State Profile of Youth Eligible and Applying for Deferred Action.” Migration Policy Institute, Aug. 2014, http://www.migrationpolicy.org/research/daca-two-year-mark-national-and-state-profile-youth-eligible-and-applying-deferred-action[iii] “Results of Tom K. Wong, United We Dream, National Immigration Law Center, and Center for American Progress National Survey.” Center for American Progress,  https://cdn.americanprogress.org/content/uploads/2017/11/02125251/2017_DACA_study_economic_report_updated.pdf[iv] Christensen Gee, et al. “Undocumented Immigrants’ State and Local Tax Contributions.” Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, Mar. 2017,  http://www.itep.org/pdf/immigration2017.pdf[v] See the methodology section for more information on the calculation of estimated undocumented immigrant state and local tax payments.[vi] Davis, Carl, et al. “Who Pays? A Distributional Analysis of the Tax Systems in All 50 States, 5th ed.”, Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, Jan. 2015, www.whopays.org.Note: the previous version of this report cited the effective tax rates paid after subtracting the federal deduction for state and local taxes, or federal offset. After the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA), the federal offset is almost non-existent. Thus, the most appropriate effective tax rate to reference is without deducting the federal offset. For more information on the post-TCJA federal offset see: Essig, Alan “The Problems with State Workarounds to the Federal SALT Deduction,” https://itep.org/the-problems-with-state-workarounds-to-the-federal-salt-deduction-limitations/.  For more information on the pre-TCJA federal offset see: “How State Tax Changes Affect Your Federal Taxes: A Primer on the “Federal Offset”,” https://itep.org/how-state-tax-changes-affect-your-federal-taxes-a-primer-on-the-federal-offset-1/[ix] Migration Policy Institute, “Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) Data Tools.” http://www.migrationpolicy.org/programs/data-hub/deferred-action-childhood-arrivals-daca-profiles#overlay-context=events[x] USCIS (see endnote 1)[xi] Center for American Progress (see endnote 3)[xii] Oakford, Patrick. “Administrative Action on Immigration Reform.” Center for American Program, September 2014. https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/immigration/reports/2014/09/04/96177/administrative-action-on-immigration-reform/[xiii] Center for American Progress (see endnote 3)[xiv] Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy (see endnote 4)[xv] See among others: Feinleib, Joel, and David Warner. “Issue Brief #1: The Impact of Immigration on Social Security and the National Economy.” Social Security Advisory Board, Social Security Advisory Board, Dec. 2005, www.ssab.gov/Portals/0/OUR_WORK/REPORTS/Impact%20of%20Immigration%20on%20Social%20Security%20Brief_2005.pdf;Singer, Paula, and Linda Dodd-Major. “Identification Numbers and U.S. Government Compliance Initiatives.” Tax Analysts, 20 Sept, 2004; and Cornelius, Wayne, and Jessica Lewis. Impacts of Border Enforcement on Mexican Migration: The View from Sending Communities, La Jolla, Calif.: University of California at San Diego, Center for Comparative Immigration Studies, 2007.Meg WieheMisha HillDreamers, the young immigrants brought to the United States as children, have had some incremental victories in federal court, but we must continue to promote the facts about the many ways Dreamers contribute to our communities and economy.Last week, a federal court judge in California ruled that the Trump administration cannot end DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) while the case works its way through the courts.This report provides state-by-state and national estimates on the current state and local tax contributions of the 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the United States as of 2014, and the increase in contributions if all these taxpayers were granted legal status as part of comprehensive reform.Washington, DC Office1616 P Street, NW Suite 200 Washington, DC 20036Phone: 202-299-1066Fax: 202-299-1065e-mail: [email protected]Subscribe to ITEP's Email Digest U.S. & State EstimatesTo get estimates for the United States, 41 states, and the District of Columbia, click here.County EstimatesTo get estimates for the 94 counties with the largest unauthorized populations, click here.WASHINGTON — As many as 3.7 million unauthorized immigrants who are parents of U.S. citizens or legal permanent residents could apply for temporary relief from deportation under the new deferred action program that President Obama is expected to unveil this week, the Migration Policy Institute (MPI) estimates. In addition, widespread reports of apparently imminent changes to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program — which has been in place since 2012 and has provided relief from deportation to more than 580,000 young unauthorized immigrants — could expand the immediately eligible DACA population by 290,000, bringing it to close to 1.5 million.In total, MPI estimates the anticipated new deferred action program and expanded DACA initiative could benefit as many as 5.2 million people — nearly half of the 11.4 million unauthorized immigrants living in the United States (see table below for national and top state breakdowns).“The president’s anticipated actions could have a significant effect on the lives of millions of unauthorized immigrants, improving job and educational prospects, the ability to apply for driver’s licenses and expanding engagement in their communities,” said MPI President Michael Fix.Under the anticipated announcement, 3.7 million parents of U.S. citizens or legal permanent residents (aka green card holders) could apply for a grant of relief from deportation and work authorization under a new deferred action program, provided they have lived in the United States for five years or more. The potential DACA changes would reportedly eliminate the age cutoff (currently applicants must be under age 31) and move forward DACA’s U.S. residency requirement from 2007 to 2010.MPI has produced the following estimates of those potentially eligible for the new and expanded deferred action programs under the anticipated actions, using an innovative methodology to estimate the size and characteristics of the unauthorized immigrant population based on analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data from the 2008-2012 American Community Survey (ACS) and the 2008 Survey of Income Program Participation (SIPP).Notes: Because a certain number of individuals could appear in more than one category, these estimates model these overlaps.  The estimates for the new deferred action program for parents exclude individuals eligible for DACA.Sources: For DACA estimates: Migration Policy Institute (MPI) analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data from the 2012 American Community Survey (ACS) and the 2008 Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP) by James Bachmeier of Temple University and Jennifer Van Hook of The Pennsylvania State University, Population Research Institute. For estimates of the new deferred action program for parents, sources are MPI analysis of 2008-2012 ACS data, pooled, and 2008 SIPP data by Bachmeier and Van Hook. For more detail on the methodology, see DACA at the Two-Year Mark: A National and State Profile of Youth Eligible and Applying for Deferred Action (Washington, DC: MPI, 2014).MPI has also developed estimates of the populations potentially eligible for the anticipated deferred action program for key states. The top 20 states are presented here; for data on the 41 states that MPI was able to estimate, see: www.migrationpolicy.org/sites/default/files/datahub/US-State-Estimates-u...​Sources: For DACA estimates: MPI analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data from the 2012 ACS and the 2008 SIPP by Bachmeier and Van Hook. For estimates of the new deferred action program for parents: MPI analysis of 2008-2012 ACS data, pooled, and 2008 SIPP data by Bachmeier and Van Hook.The DACA experience makes clear that not all potentially eligible applicants will apply. MPI has estimated that as of July 2014, 55 percent of those who met the DACA criteria had applied for relief. Application costs, fear of self-identifying as unauthorized or potentially exposing other unauthorized relatives to government scrutiny and lack of information about the program and its temporary nature were among the barriers.For more on unauthorized immigrant populations nationally and by state, including size of the overall population, countries of origin, top languages and more, check out a unique new MPI data tool with detailed profiles for the U.S., 41 states and the District of Columbia: http://migrationpolicy.org/programs/us-immigration-policy-program-data-hub/unauthorized-immigrant-population-profiles.#  #  #The Migration Policy Institute (MPI) is an independent, non-partisan, non-profit think tank in Washington, DC dedicated to analysis of the movement of people worldwide. MPI provides analysis, development and evaluation of migration and refugee policies at the local, national and international levels. For more on MPI, please visit www.migrationpolicy.org.Michelle Mittelstadt202-266-1910mmittelstadt@migrationpolicy.org1400 16th St NW, Suite 300, Washington, DC 20036 | ph. 202-266-1940 | fax. 202-266-1900      Copyright © 2001-2019 Migration Policy Institute. All rights reserved. 1400 16th St NW, Suite 300, Washington, DC 20036  ph. 202-266-1940 | fax. 202-266-1900      Copyright © 2001-2019 Migration Policy Institute. All rights reserved. Uniting opinion leaders to exchange ideas and create solutions to the challenges of the Americas todayCouncil of the Americas, Americas Quarterly, and the National Endowment for Democracy will hold a deep-dive discussion on China’s new agenda for engagement in the Americas.AS/COA plays a crucial role in promoting dialogue and strengthening hemispheric ties. Find out more from our 2017 Annual Report.January 14, 2015The interactive web tool provides data on immigrant population shares, immigrant earnings, and immigrant contributions to Main Street business growth for the 50 largest metro areas in the United States.Read the full report on how immigrant small businesses help local economies. Related:United States, Entrepreneurship & Job Creation, Immigration | More In: InfographicsMarch 15, 2019The region is welcoming Venezuelans through the front door - without the drama seen elsewhere.April 01, 2019While we wait on USMCA ratification, trilateral trade between NAFTA members keeps growing. AS/COA Online takes a look, with a spotlight on U.S.-... Read More April 26, 2019April 16, 2019Copyright 2019 by Americas Society / Council of the Americas. All Rights Reserved. ITEP's Email Digestview »view »Read as PDF (Includes Full Appendix of State-by-State data)Leer en EspañolReport Landing PagePublic debates over federal immigration reform, specifically around undocumented immigrants, often suffer from insufficient and inaccurate information about the tax contributions of undocumented immigrants, particularly at the state level. The truth is that undocumented immigrants living in the United States pay billions of dollars each year in state and local taxes. Further, these tax contributions would increase significantly if all undocumented immigrants currently living in the United States were granted a pathway to citizenship as part of a comprehensive immigration reform.  Or put in the reverse, if undocumented immigrants are deported in high numbers, state and local revenues could take a substantial hit.Accurate information about the tax contributions of undocumented immigrants is needed now more than ever. Divisive and objectionable rhetoric has not tempered in the early months of the Trump administration. Policies adopted and supported by the new administration are haphazard in design and impact; they characterize undocumented families as criminals and encourage indiscriminate deportations. Good policy is informed policy. Just like the horrendous impact of breaking up families should not be ignored, neither should the lost tax contributions from isolating or deporting undocumented immigrants.To better inform the ongoing debates on immigration policy reform, this report provides state-by-state and national estimates on the current state and local tax contributions of the 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the United States as of 2014, and the increase in contributions if all these taxpayers were granted legal status as part of comprehensive reform. [1]Key Findings:Undocumented Immigrants Pay State and Local Taxes: Current ContributionsLike other people living and working in the United States, undocumented immigrants pay state and local taxes. They pay sales and excise taxes when they purchase goods and services (for example, on utilities, clothing and gasoline). They pay property taxes directly on their homes or indirectly as renters. Many undocumented immigrants also pay state income taxes. The best evidence suggests that at least 50 percent of undocumented immigrant households currently file income tax returns using Individual Tax Identification Numbers (ITINs), and many who do not file income tax returns still have taxes deducted from their paychecks.[4]Collectively, undocumented immigrants in the United States pay an estimated total of $11.74 billion in state and local taxes a year (see Table 1 for state-by-state estimates). This includes more than $7 billion in sales and excise taxes, $3.6 billion in property taxes, and $1.1 billion in personal income taxes.Another way to measure the state and local taxes that undocumented immigrants pay is through their effective tax rate, which is the share of total income paid in taxes. The effective tax rate is useful for more accurate state-to-state comparisons because it accounts for differences between states’ tax structures and population size. Undocumented immigrants’ nationwide average effective tax rate is an estimated 8 percent. To put this in perspective, the top 1 percent of taxpayers pay an average nationwide effective tax rate of just 5.4 percent.[5]Table 1: Undocumented Immigrants’ State and Local Tax ContributionsCurrent vs. Full Legal Status for All Undocumented ImmigrantsGranting Legal Status to All Undocumented Immigrants Would Boost Their State and Local Tax ContributionsCreating a pathway to citizenship for the 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the United States and allowing them to work here legally would boost their current state and local tax contributions by more than $2.18 billion a year (see Table 1). Personal income tax collections would increase by $1.1 billion a year. Sales and excise taxes would increase by $702 million, and property taxes would grow by $362 million. As a result, the overall state and local taxes paid by undocumented immigrants as a share of their income would increase from 8 percent to 8.6 percent.The most significant revenue gain would come from the personal income tax, due to both increased earnings and full compliance with the tax code.[6] Multiple studies have shown that legal immigrants have higher wages than undocumented immigrants, thus gaining legal status could lead to a boost in wages. The wage boost is in part due to better job opportunities that would be made available to workers with legal status and also in part to an increased access to higher-level skills and better training. Most comprehensive reform measures to date have included strong incentives or requirements for undocumented immigrants granted legal status to fully comply with tax law.ConclusionUndocumented immigrants make considerable tax contributions. Like other immigrants and U.S. citizens they purchase goods and services, work, and live across the country. Proposals to remove immigrants ignore their many contributions. In a time when most states are facing revenue shortages, the potential budgetary impacts of mass deportation merits careful consideration. States could lose an estimated $11.74 billion in revenue if all undocumented immigrants were removed. In addition to the many humanitarian, public health, and moral arguments for a pathway to legal citizenship and against mass deportations, there is also a state fiscal component that should not be ignored.See Appendix 1 for state-by-state estimates of the current and post-reform state and local tax contributions of the total undocumented immigrant population. The appendix includes effective tax rates and totals for sales and excise, personal income, and property taxes.MethodologyWhile the spending and income behavior of undocumented immigrant families is not as well documented as that of US citizens, the estimates in this report represent a best approximation of the taxes families headed by undocumented immigrants likely pay.The ITEP methodology used to calculate the current and potential tax contribution of undocumented immigrants uses five main data points:1. Estimated undocumented immigrant population in each state2. Average size of undocumented immigrant families/taxpaying units3. Range of annual undocumented immigrant family/taxpayer income in each state4. Estimated number of undocumented immigrants who are homeowners5. Estimated effective tax rates (taxes as share of income) for sales, income, and property taxes paid by low- and moderate-income families in each stateAdditional assumptions are made (and described below) about the change in tax contributions that would occur if all 11 million undocumented immigrants were granted legal status under comprehensive immigration reform.See Appendix 2 for state-by-state details on data used to assist in calculating the state and local tax contributions.1. Estimated undocumented immigrant population in each stateEstimates of each state’s undocumented immigrant population are from the Migration Policy Institute (MPI).[7] According to MPI, an estimated 11,090,000 undocumented immigrants resided in the U.S. as of 2014 (an estimate that is only 13,000 lower than MPI’s estimate from 2013 data).2.  Average size of undocumented immigrant families/taxpaying unitsThe Pew Research Center calculated a nationwide estimate of the number of people per undocumented immigrant family. The most recent estimate, 2.29, is used to find an estimated number of undocumented families (or taxpaying units) by state.[8] ITEP divided population estimates for each state by the average family size to find an estimated number of undocumented families/taxpaying units living in each state.3. Range of annual undocumented immigrant family/taxpayer income in each stateEstimates of the income distribution of undocumented families are from MPI data on the number of undocumented immigrants in five discrete income groups based on the 2014 federal poverty level.[9] ITEP used the midpoint of the income ranges in each group as an estimate of average income within each group and multiplied by the number of families/taxpaying units in each group to calculate aggregate income in these groups.4. Estimated number of undocumented immigrants who are homeowners ITEP used MPI data on undocumented families’ homeownership rates for each state. We then calculated separate property tax incidence analyses for homeowners and renters in each state. Applying the homeowner effective tax rates to the homeowner population and the renter tax rates to the renter population yielded a combined property tax estimate for all undocumented families in each state.[10]5. Estimated effective tax rates (taxes as share of income) for sales, income, and property taxes paid by low- and moderate-income families in each state[11]ITEP’s microsimulation computer model is a sophisticated program that applies the state and local tax laws in each state (including sales, excise, income, and property tax laws) to a statistically valid database of tax returns to generate estimates of the effective tax rates paid by taxpayers at various income levels under state and local tax law in place as of December 31, 2014. In January of 2015, ITEP released the 5th edition of Who Pays? which estimates the effect of the state and local tax laws as of January 2015 on taxpayers at 2012 income levels. This report applies effective tax rates calculated in the 2015 Who Pays? report to the undocumented population with one exception. The effective tax rates in seven states: California, Colorado, Maine, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Oklahoma, and Rhode Island were slightly modified for the analysis to include the enactment, enhancement, or reduction of state EITCs in 2015 and 2016 (this change applies only to the analysis granting legal status and does not impact the current tax contributions).The following assumptions were made to calculate the sales, income, and property taxes of the undocumented immigration population:Additional indicators used to make calculations for anticipated state and local tax changes if legal status is granted as part of comprehensive immigration reform:Changes from ITEP’s February 2016 Undocumented Immigrants’ State & Local Tax Contributions ReportThe analysis presented in this report is an update to an ITEP report published in 2016. The 2017 report uses 2014 estimates on the undocumented immigrant population (size, income, homeownership, and population impacted by the executive actions) whereas the 2016 report used 2013 data. Most notably, the number of undocumented immigrants remained relatively flat. It declined by only about 13,000 between 2013 and 2014, however the amount of estimated income rose slightly. The steady population and slight changes in income led to a small increase in the total amount of state and local taxes undocumented immigrants pay in the 2017study compared to the 2016 study. [1] Migration Policy Institute (MPI) analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data from the 2010-2014 ACS pooled, and the 2008 Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP) by Colin Hammar and James Bachmeier of Temple University and Jennifer Van Hook of Pennsylvania State University, Population Research Institute.[2] See the methodology section for more information on the calculation of estimated undocumented immigrant state and local tax payments.[3] Davis, Carl, et al. “Who Pays? A Distributional Analysis of the Tax Systems in All 50 States.” Who Pays?, 5th ed., Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, Jan. 2015, www.whopays.org.[4]See this report’s methodology section for more information about current personal income tax compliance.[5] Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy (see footnote 3).[6] See this report’s methodology for a detailed description of wage boost and tax compliance assumptions applied to the change in state and local tax contributions post-reform.[7] Migration Policy Institute (see footnote 1)[8] Passel, Jeffrey S., and D’Vera Cohn. “Unauthorized Immigrant Population, National and State Trends, 2010.” Pew Hispanic, Pew Research Center, 1 Feb. 2011, www.pewhispanic.org/2011/02/01/unauthorized-immigrant-population-brnational-and-state-trends-2010/.[9] Migration Policy Institute (see footnote 1)[10] Ibid.[11] Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy (see footnote 3)[12] See among others: Orozco, Manuel. “Remittances to Latin America and the Caribbean: Issues and Perspectives on Development.” Summit of the Americas, Organization of American States, Sept. 2004, www.summit-americas.org/Panels/Panel_on_Remittances/INF5_Remesas_Orozco_ENG.pdf.[13] See among others: Feinleib, Joel, and David Warner. “Issue Brief #1: The Impact of Immigration on Social Security and the National Economy.” Social Security Advisory Board, Social Security Advisory Board, Dec. 2005, www.ssab.gov/Portals/0/OUR_WORK/REPORTS/Impact%20of%20Immigration%20on%20Social%20Security%20Brief_2005.pdf; Singer, Paula, and Linda Dodd-Major. “Identification Numbers and U.S. Government Compliance Initiatives.” Tax Analysts, 20 Sept, 2004; and Cornelius, Wayne, and Jessica Lewis. Impacts of Border Enforcement on Mexican Migration: The View from Sending Communities, La Jolla, Calif.: University of California at San Diego, Center for Comparative Immigration Studies, 2007.[14] Kallick, David Dyssegaard. “Three Ways Immigration Reform Would Make the Economy More Productive.” Fiscal Policy Institute, Fiscal Policy Institute, 4 Jun., 2013, fiscalpolicy.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/3-ways-reform-would-improve-productivity.pdf (see Appendix A: A Review of the Literature on Legalization and Earnings, and also this report’s methodology section for more information on the wage effects of granting legal status to the entire undocumented population).[15] “Economic Impact of S. 744, Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act.” Congressional Budget Office, Congressional Budget Office, Jun. 2013, www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/113th-congress-2013-2014/reports/44346-Immigration.pdf.Washington, DC Office1616 P Street, NW Suite 200 Washington, DC 20036Phone: 202-299-1066Fax: 202-299-1065e-mail: [email protected]Subscribe to ITEP's Email DigestITEP's Email Digestview »view »Meg WieheMisha HillRead as PDF (Includes Appendices of State-by-State Data)IntroductionThe Trump administration’s immigration policies have broken apart families and removed established members of communities. The administration’s disregard for the contributions of immigrants, regardless of their legal status, is of real concern for young immigrants whose parents brought them to the United States as children. Many of those young immigrants qualify for deferred deportation action and legal work authorization under Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), a 2012 executive order under President Barack Obama.In September 2017, President Trump used his executive powers to order the rescission of DACA on March 5, 2018 unless Congress enacted permanent protections. Trump’s executive action was met by multiple lawsuits from state attorneys general and other parties that would be economically injured if DACA recipients lost their protections or were deported. Before the March 5 deadline, two federal rulings prevented the termination of the program but the administration did not have to accept new applications or renewals.On April 24, 2018, a federal judge ordered that the administration must reinstate the program and begin accepting new applications and renewals—the administration has 90 days to respond. The legal status of the young people eligible for and currently enrolled in DACA is very much in flux.More than 1.3 million out of the 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the United States are eligible for DACA. As of January 2018, more than 682,000 individuals were enrolled in the program.[i] DACA offers eligible teenagers and young adults who were brought to the United States as children outside of their control temporary deferral from deportation and legal work authorization.[ii]  US Customs and Immigration Services (USCIS) releases quarterly updates of DACA population estimates. These most recently available figures are smaller than previous estimates because they exclude former DACA enrollees who are now legal permanent residents, those who did not reapply, and those whose reapplication was denied. Additionally, the Trump administrations’ rescission of DACA and the ongoing court cases have prevented and discouraged eligible DACA recipients from applying or reapplying. At this time, the most important population to consider is the total eligible population of 1.3 million Dreamers as this group will be most impacted by future decisions relating to DACA. This report will use the term Dreamers to refer to the combined population of young immigrants who are enrolled in DACA and those who are eligible for DACA but not enrolled.DACA enrollment has helped young immigrants become more engaged in their communities. A national survey of DACA enrollees in 2017 found that more than 50 percent of respondents secured their first job after enrollment in DACA, and nearly 70 percent landed a job with better pay. DACA enrollment also allowed 65 percent of respondents to pursue educational opportunities that were previously unavailable to them, and more than 70 percent of respondents hold a bachelor’s degree or higher.[iii]The 1.3 million Dreamers eligible for deferred action contribute tax dollars to communities that help pay for schools, public infrastructure, and other services. Their contributions could be increased by taking steps to ensure that all individuals eligible for deferred action are enrolled, or even by offering a path to citizenship. Conversely, stripping their temporary lawful status or deporting them would decrease their tax contributions and deprive our country of a dedicated and diverse generation.An ITEP report from March 2017 found the 11 million undocumented immigrants living and working in the United States contribute more than $11.74 billion in state and local taxes.[iv] This report specifically examines the state and local tax contributions of undocumented immigrants who are currently enrolled or immediately eligible for DACA and the fiscal implications of various policy changes. The report includes information on the national impact (Chart 1) and provides a state-by-state breakdown (Appendices 1 and 2).Key Findings How Dreamers Contribute to State and Local RevenueQuestions have frequently been raised about the taxes paid by undocumented immigrants. Everyone living and working in the U.S. contributes to state and local taxes, regardless of their immigration status. We all pay sales and excise taxes when we purchase goods and services, such as clothing or gasoline. We all pay property taxes either directly for our homes or indirectly as renters.DACA provides young immigrants with work authorization and recipients are subject to the same state and local personal income tax laws as all lawfully present workers. Additionally, DACA recipients have (temporary) Social Security numbers. Thus, it is reasonable to assume that working DACA recipients file and pay state and local income taxes just like any other working American. As ITEP’s 2017 report demonstrated, about half of undocumented immigrants of all ages file income tax returns. They do this using Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers (ITINs) in the absence of having valid Social Security numbers. Therefore we assume that young immigrants who are eligible for but not enrolled in DACA comply with income tax law at a similar rate.The tax revenues generated by DACA recipients are further boosted by the fact that DACA status boosts employment rates and wages. A national survey of DACA recipients found that employment rates increased by 127 percent after enrollment, from 44 percent of respondents employed to 91 percent.[vii]  Evidence also shows that relief from deportation and temporary work permits through programs like DACA also boosts undocumented immigrants’ wages by at least 8.5 percent. When given the opportunity to work legally and a reprieve from deportation DACA recipients are able to work more, earn more wages, and are less likely to be victims of wage theft from unscrupulous employers.Based on this evidence, we assume that 91 percent of the 682,000 young immigrants currently enrolled in DACA are employed, and that they are earning, on average, 8.5 percent more than the estimated 643,000 young people eligible for but not receiving DACA. The higher earnings, higher employment rate, and higher tax compliance rate of individuals enrolled in DACA leads to their increased tax contributions and higher effective tax rate compared to those eligible for but not receiving DACA. The total contributions of all Dreamers who are currently receiving or eligible for DACA status is over $1.7 billion in state and local taxes annually. If all eligible individuals were enrolled in DACA, those state and local tax contributions would increase by more than $815 million due to higher earnings, higher employment rate, and 100 percent tax compliance for all DACA eligible immigrants (see Table 1).In contrast, failing to maintain work authorizations and deportation relief of DACA would hurt state and local coffers. If the 682,000 young immigrants currently enrolled lost the protections of DACA, it would reduce their state and local tax contributions by nearly $700 million (see Table 1).ConclusionEvery state benefits from the tax contributions of young undocumented immigrants, but every state has much more to lose if we remove the protections and work authorization granted to these young people. On average, DACA recipients were only 6 years old when they were brought to this country. DACA recipients are part of the American family and over 70 percent have a U.S. citizen spouse, child, or sibling.[viii] Dreamers are our neighbors, classmates, and co-workers, and they have called this country home for most of their lives.  In its attempt to rescind DACA and increased detention and deportation enforcement, the Trump administration has broken a promise America made with these young people. If the Trump administration continues on this path, the nation risks forcing Dreamers back into the shadows and losing the economic and societal contributions these engaged young people are making in our communities.MethodologyITEP estimates the state and local tax contributions of DACA-eligible immigrants under different policy options through the methodology detailed below.This is a very conservative estimate. A 2017 nationally representative survey found the average annual income of working DACA recipients to be $36,231 while their average annual income prior to enrollment was $20,068. This represents an 81% increase in wages.[xiii]ITEP’s microsimulation computer model is a sophisticated program that applies the state and local tax laws in each state (including sales, excise, income, and property tax laws) to a statistically valid database of tax returns to generate estimates of the effective tax rates paid by taxpayers at various income levels under state and local tax law in place as of December 31, 2014. In January of 2015, ITEP released the 5th edition of Who Pays? which estimates the effect of the state and local tax laws as of January 2015 on taxpayers at 2012 income levels. This report applies effective tax rates calculated in the 2015 Who Pays? report to the DACA eligible population.The following assumptions were made to calculate the sales and excise, income, and property taxes of the undocumented immigration population:[i] “Approximate Active DACA Recipients as of January 31, 2018.” United States Citizenship and Immigration Services(USCIS), https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Resources/Reports%20and%20Studies/Immigration%20Forms%20Data/All%20Form%20Types/DACA/DACA_Population_Data_Jan_31_2018.pdf[ii] Batalova, Jeanne, et al. “DACA at the Two-Year Mark: A National and State Profile of Youth Eligible and Applying for Deferred Action.” Migration Policy Institute, Aug. 2014, http://www.migrationpolicy.org/research/daca-two-year-mark-national-and-state-profile-youth-eligible-and-applying-deferred-action[iii] “Results of Tom K. Wong, United We Dream, National Immigration Law Center, and Center for American Progress National Survey.” Center for American Progress,  https://cdn.americanprogress.org/content/uploads/2017/11/02125251/2017_DACA_study_economic_report_updated.pdf[iv] Christensen Gee, et al. “Undocumented Immigrants’ State and Local Tax Contributions.” Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, Mar. 2017,  http://www.itep.org/pdf/immigration2017.pdf[v] See the methodology section for more information on the calculation of estimated undocumented immigrant state and local tax payments.[vi] Davis, Carl, et al. “Who Pays? A Distributional Analysis of the Tax Systems in All 50 States, 5th ed.”, Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, Jan. 2015, www.whopays.org.Note: the previous version of this report cited the effective tax rates paid after subtracting the federal deduction for state and local taxes, or federal offset. After the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA), the federal offset is almost non-existent. Thus, the most appropriate effective tax rate to reference is without deducting the federal offset. For more information on the post-TCJA federal offset see: Essig, Alan “The Problems with State Workarounds to the Federal SALT Deduction,” https://itep.org/the-problems-with-state-workarounds-to-the-federal-salt-deduction-limitations/.  For more information on the pre-TCJA federal offset see: “How State Tax Changes Affect Your Federal Taxes: A Primer on the “Federal Offset”,” https://itep.org/how-state-tax-changes-affect-your-federal-taxes-a-primer-on-the-federal-offset-1/[ix] Migration Policy Institute, “Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) Data Tools.” http://www.migrationpolicy.org/programs/data-hub/deferred-action-childhood-arrivals-daca-profiles#overlay-context=events[x] USCIS (see endnote 1)[xi] Center for American Progress (see endnote 3)[xii] Oakford, Patrick. “Administrative Action on Immigration Reform.” Center for American Program, September 2014. https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/immigration/reports/2014/09/04/96177/administrative-action-on-immigration-reform/[xiii] Center for American Progress (see endnote 3)[xiv] Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy (see endnote 4)[xv] See among others: Feinleib, Joel, and David Warner. “Issue Brief #1: The Impact of Immigration on Social Security and the National Economy.” Social Security Advisory Board, Social Security Advisory Board, Dec. 2005, www.ssab.gov/Portals/0/OUR_WORK/REPORTS/Impact%20of%20Immigration%20on%20Social%20Security%20Brief_2005.pdf;Singer, Paula, and Linda Dodd-Major. “Identification Numbers and U.S. Government Compliance Initiatives.” Tax Analysts, 20 Sept, 2004; and Cornelius, Wayne, and Jessica Lewis. Impacts of Border Enforcement on Mexican Migration: The View from Sending Communities, La Jolla, Calif.: University of California at San Diego, Center for Comparative Immigration Studies, 2007.Meg WieheMisha HillDreamers, the young immigrants brought to the United States as children, have had some incremental victories in federal court, but we must continue to promote the facts about the many ways Dreamers contribute to our communities and economy.Last week, a federal court judge in California ruled that the Trump administration cannot end DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) while the case works its way through the courts.This report provides state-by-state and national estimates on the current state and local tax contributions of the 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the United States as of 2014, and the increase in contributions if all these taxpayers were granted legal status as part of comprehensive reform.Washington, DC Office1616 P Street, NW Suite 200 Washington, DC 20036Phone: 202-299-1066Fax: 202-299-1065e-mail: [email protected]Subscribe to ITEP's Email Digest   Official website of the Department of Homeland SecurityIn an effort to keep DHS.gov current, the archive contains outdated information that may not reflect current policy or programs.Secretary Johnson in his November 20, 2014 Memorandum.Uniting opinion leaders to exchange ideas and create solutions to the challenges of the Americas todayCouncil of the Americas, Americas Quarterly, and the National Endowment for Democracy will hold a deep-dive discussion on China’s new agenda for engagement in the Americas.AS/COA plays a crucial role in promoting dialogue and strengthening hemispheric ties. Find out more from our 2017 Annual Report.June 26, 2014The essential economy—which encompasses the food services and hospitality industries, construction, agriculture, elder care, and manufacturing—is fundamental to the U.S. economy and society as a whole.[1] Immigrants’ participation in these sectors creates new jobs for native-born workers, contributes to the growth of construction and agriculture, and provides essential care to the United States’ aging population. This fact sheet—the tenth in our series on immigrants and the economy—details five reasons why immigrants are vital to the success of the essential economy.1. Immigrants play a critical role in supporting the food service and hospitality industries by meeting labor market demand and creating jobs as small-business owners. 2. Immigrants are supporting growth of the construction industry—a key measure of how well the economy is bouncing back from the Great Recession.3. With demand for produce at an all-time high, agriculture workers—nearly three-fourths of whom are foreign-born—are essential to getting food from our farms to our supermarkets.[16] 4. With a rapidly aging U.S. population, immigrants help to meet the increasing demand for in-home health aids and assisted living for seniors.5. Immigrants play an outsize role in the manufacturing industry, keeping middle-class jobs in the U.S. and helping to revitalize declining economies across the country.This fact sheet is a product of the AS/COA Immigration and Integration Initiative, which promotes positive dialogue around the economic contributions of immigrants across the United States. It was produced by Rebecca Bintrim and Adam Wolsky in collaboration with Kate Brick and Richard André, co-directors of the Immigration and Integration Initiative. For media inquiries or to speak with an expert on this topic, please contact Adriana La Rotta in our communications office at: alarotta@as-coa.org.[1] The term “Essential Economy” was coined by the Essential Economy Council, which defines it as an occupational cluster that includes six sectors: hospitality and restaurants, agriculture and poultry, light construction and landscaping, personal care and assisted living, building maintenance and facilities services, and distribution and logistics.[2] Bureau of Labor Statistics, “Employed foreign-born and native-born persons 16 years and over by occupation and sex, 2013 annual averages,” United States Department of Labor, 2013. [3] Immigration Research Initiative, “Immigrant Small Business Owners,” Fiscal Policy Institute, 2012.[4] “Georgia Immigration Reform: Restaurant Impact Study – November 2011,” Georgia Restaurant Association, 2011.[5] “Georgia Immigration Reform: Restaurant Impact Study,” Georgia Restaurant Association, 2011.[6] Audrey Singer, “Immigrant Workers in the U.S. Labor Force,” Brookings Institution, 2012.[7] Frank Bass, "Almost 1 in 5 Small U.S. Businesses Owned By Immigrants," Bloomberg News, 2012.[8] "Spotlight Immigration Reform," American Hotel & Lodging Association, 2014.[9] Richard Henderson, “Industry employment and output projections to 2020,” Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2012.[10] “Immigrant Workers in the Construction Labor Force,” National Association of Home Builders Economics, 2013.[11] Natalia Siniavskaia, “Immigrants and Housing Demand,” National Association of Home Builders, 2012.[12] “Emerging Trends in Real Estate 2014,” Urban Land Institute, 2014, p.41-42.[13] “Immigrant Workers in the Construction Labor Force,” National Association of Home Builders Economics, 2013.[14] Deon Roberts, “NC Economy to Grow in 2014, UNC Charlotte Economist Predicts,” The Charlotte Observer, 2014.[15] “Industry employment and output projections to 2022,” Monthly Labor Review, 2013.[16] Economic Research Service, “Immigration and the Rural Workforce,” U.S. Department of Agriculture,  2013.[17] Stephen Bronars, “No Longer Home Grown: How Labor Shortages are Increasing America’s Reliance on Imported Fresh Produce and Slowing U.S. Economic Growth,” The Partnership for a New American Economy and the Agriculture Coalition for Immigration Reform, 2014, p.5.[18] Ibid, p.9, 11.[19] Michael Clemens, “International Harvest: A case Study of How Foreign Workers Help American Farms Grow Crops—and the Economy,” The Partnership for a New American Economy and the Center for Global Development, 2013, p.2.[20] “Projected Future Growth of the Older Population,” Administration on Aging.[21] Diana Polson, “By Our Sides: The Vital Work of Immigrant Direct Care Workers,” Direct Care Alliance Inc., 2011, p.3.[22] Jane Henrici, “Improving Career Opportunities for Immigrant Women In-Home Care Workers,” Institute for Women’s Policy Research, 2013, p.5.[23] Jeffrey S. Passel and D’Vera Cohn, “U.S. Population Projections: 2005-2050,” Pew Research Center Social & Demographic Trends 2008, p.13.[24] Joe Caldwell, “Immigration Reform: Key Issues for People with Disabilities and Older Adults,” National Council on Aging, 2014, p.3.[25] CIA World Factbook, “United States Median Age.”[26] “Florida: Demographics,” The Florida Legislature Office of Economic and Demographic Research, 2011.[27] Judith Gans, “Immigrants in Arizona: Fiscal and Economic Impacts,” Udall Center for Studies in Public Policy: The University of Arizona, 2008 p.4-6.[28] Bruce P. Corrie and Sarah Radosevich, “The Economic Contributions of Immigrants in Minnesota,” 2013, p.47.[29] “Manufacturing Fast Facts,” Minnesota Precisions Manufacturing Association.[30] Jacob Vigdor, “Immigration and the Revival of American Cities: From Preserving Manufacturing Jobs to Strengthening the Housing Market,” Americas Society/Council of the Americas, 2013, p.27.[31] Ibid, p.7.Related:United States, Economics & Finance, Immigration | More In: Articles & Op-EdsApril 17, 2019The event will discuss how Ecuador can attract new investment and make it easier to conduct business in the country. April 01, 2019While we wait on USMCA ratification, trilateral trade between NAFTA members keeps growing. AS/COA Online takes a look, with a spotlight on U.S.-... Read More April 26, 2019April 16, 2019Copyright 2019 by Americas Society / Council of the Americas. All Rights Reserved. Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your WorldWhy does the crime rate soar among second-generation immigrants compared with their foreign-born peers?  Until recently, most sociologists have explained this increase by noting that many second-generation immigrants feel caught between two conflicting worlds—the old world of their parents and the new world of their birth.But recently researchers have posited an alternate theory:  Second-generation immigrants are just “catching up” with the rest of us, claims Bianca E. Bersani, a sociologist at the University of Massachusetts-Boston.Call it the dark side of assimilation. These second-generation immigrants have become as susceptible to temptation and harmful influences as are other Americans according to Bersani.  The unhappy consequence is a similar likelihood of committing a crime, Bersani wrote in an article published online by the journal Crime & Delinquency.Other studies have documented how second-generation immigrants have become more like the typical American, both in positive and negative ways. For example, a Pew Research Center analysis of Census data earlier this year found that median family income of second-generation immigrants is virtually identical to the national median and higher than their foreign-born counterparts.  Home ownership rates follow a similar trajectory.In her study, Bersani analyzed crime data collected from first- and second-generation immigrants. She then compared those crime rates with the other native-born adults and found striking similarities between second-generation immigrants and native-born non-Hispanic whites.She begins her analysis by noting this well-documented phenomenon:  The crime rate among first-generation immigrants—those who came to this country from somewhere else—is significantly lower than the overall crime rate and that of the second generation. It’s even lower for those in their teens and early 20s, the age range when criminal involvement peaks.But just a generation later, the crime rate soars.  In fact, it is virtually identical to the rate among native-born Americans across the most crime-prone years.  As the accompanying chart taken from an earlier Bersani study shows, about a quarter of 16-year-old native-born and second-generation immigrants have committed a crime in the past year. In contrast, about 17% of the foreign-born 16-year olds have broken the law.What explains the difference?Some researchers say the generations face two different sets of experiences, with the second generation—those with at least one parent who was born abroad—caught in the middle. They argue the second generation is caught between conflicting family and social values and expectations, and one result of this old world/new world conflict is a greater propensity to commit crime.  For more details, see this 1992 study.To explore the causes of crime among second-generation immigrants, Besani used data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1997, a household-based, representative sample of people living in the U.S. in 1997 who were born from 1980 through 1984. The initial sample includes 8,984 youth who have been interviewed on an annual basis beginning in 1997. The dataset she used contained data collected through 2005.The survey questioned respondents on sensitive topics, including the number of times they had a purposely damaged or destroyed property, committed a theft, sold or helped to sell drugs, attacked someone with the intent of hurting them or got into a serious fight in the past year.In addition to crime data, the survey included information on important risk factors that researchers say are closely correlated with criminal involvement. They included whether the respondent had been a victim of a crime as a youth, various measures of family attachment as well as performance and attachment to school, whether the respondent had delinquent peers, lived in a neighborhood with gangs, or whether any of the respondent’s peers were gang members.Then Bersani compared second-generation immigrants with other native-born groups. She found that the results supported her theory that “their involvement in crime is the result of the same factors that explain involvement in crime among typical native-born youth.”For example, having peers in a gang increased the probability that an individual had been arrested in the previous year by 23% for second-generation immigrants and 25% for native-born non-Hispanic whites, Bersani wrote in an email. Similarly, having delinquent peers increases the likelihood of criminal or delinquent behavior by 6% for both groups. (The pattern was more mixed between second-generation immigrants and native-born blacks and Hispanics.)This similar offending “profile” is strong evidence, she argues, that the generation crime gap among immigrants is due to the second-generation behaving like their native-born peers and not only as a consequence of growing up in two colliding worlds.“Second generation immigrants appear to be catching-up to and resemble the typical native-born (white) population, at least in regard to their offending profile,” she wrote. These findings “suggest that the children of immigrants seemingly fall prey to criminogenic influences in similar ways that native-born youth do.”Real-time analysis and news about data from Pew Research Center writers and social scientists.1615 L St. NW, Suite 800Washington, DC 20036USA(+1) 202-419-4300 | Main(+1) 202-857-8562 | Fax(+1) 202-419-4372 | Media InquiriesAbout Pew Research Center Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan fact tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends shaping the world. It conducts public opinion polling, demographic research, media content analysis and other empirical social science research. Pew Research Center does not take policy positions. It is a subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts.To complete the subscription process, please click the link in the email we just sent you.When you're finished with our website, would you be willing to answer a quick question?Thank you. Later in your visit, you will see a popup with our question.Thank you for your response.Thank you for your response.Remember me·Forgot password?Get instant updates from your friends, industry experts, favorite celebrities, and what's happening around the world.What is Twitter? Learn more.Remember me·Forgot password?Get instant updates from your friends, industry experts, favorite celebrities, and what's happening around the world.What is Twitter? Learn more.President Trump called some people “animals” during an immigration roundtable with California sheriffs on May 16.  Who you believe he was referring to probably depends on how you feel about President Trump. Trump and the White House claim it’s clear as day: Trump was obviously referring to MS-13 gang members who commit heinous crimes. Trump’s called MS-13 “animals” before, but after this controversy the White House has embraced the term: a Monday press release was titled “What You Need To Know About The Animals Of MS-13.”MS-13 “animals” has gone from a presidential utterance to White House doctrine. This WH press release on “what you need to know about the violent animals of MS-13” calls them animals 8 times. pic.twitter.com/ZAfOlYjaDBBut in the eyes of Trump’s critics, the justification for “animals” wasn’t obvious at all. Some believe that the president simply had an obligation to be more careful with his words, while others point to a long history of using a few criminals to smear entire groups of people — or simply claim that it’s inhumane to refer to any human being as an animal.At this point, both sides think they’ve won. Trump and the White House are messaging the idea that MS-13 is a bunch of animals in the aggressive manner they use when they think they’ve found a winning culture-war argument (see also: “Merry Christmas”). Meanwhile, Democrats and advocates appear to believe that they have another remark on their hands that will pay political dividends by revealing the president’s true animosity toward people of color (see also: “shithole countries”). Both sides believe that the other is missing, or deliberately blocking out, the context of Trump’s remark. It’s an intractable disagreement not because the immediate context is unknowable — the whole event was broadcast live — but because Donald Trump has spent his entire three years in national politics saying things that sound racist to a lot of people, and America has spent three years arguing about whether that’s the fault of the person speaking those words or the people hearing them.RelatedThe original wave of progressive outrage over Trump’s comments, on Wednesday, was spurred by tweets like this one, which quoted Trump’s “animals” comment but not the comment from the sheriff that preceded it:Trump: "We're taking people out of the country — you wouldn't believe how bad these people are. These aren't people. These are animals."He says the U.S. has "the dumbest laws on immigration in the world."That outrage spurred characterization of Trump’s comments as being about all deportees or even about all unauthorized immigrants. Trump’s defenders immediately claimed the media was getting the story wrong — that Trump had been answering a question about MS-13, so he clearly meant only that violent MS-13 gang members were “criminals.”Both of those characterizations were wrong. This is a pasted selection from the transcript sent out by the White House Press Office after the roundtable Wednesday:SHERIFF (Margaret) MIMS (Fresno County, CA): Now ICE is the only law enforcement agency that cannot use our databases to find the bad guys. They cannot come in and talk to people in our jail, unless they reach a certain threshold. They can’t do all kinds of things that other law enforcement agencies can do. And it’s really put us in a very bad position.THE PRESIDENT: It’s a disgrace. Okay? It’s a disgrace.SHERIFF MIMS: It’s a disgrace.THE PRESIDENT: And we’re suing on that, and we’re working hard, and I think it will all come together, because people want it to come together. It’s so ridiculous. The concept that we’re even talking about is ridiculous. We’ll take care of it, Margaret. We’ll win.SHERIFF MIMS: Thank you. There could be an MS-13 member I know about — if they don’t reach a certain threshold, I cannot tell ICE about it.THE PRESIDENT: We have people coming into the country, or trying to come in — and we’re stopping a lot of them — but we’re taking people out of the country. You wouldn’t believe how bad these people are. These aren’t people. These are animals. And we’re taking them out of the country at a level and at a rate that’s never happened before. And because of the weak laws, they come in fast, we get them, we release them, we get them again, we bring them out. It’s crazy.This context makes a few things clear.First of all, Trump was not asked a question about MS-13. He was not asked a question at all. He was commiserating with Sheriff Mims about the restrictions that the California “sanctuary” law puts on the ability of local law enforcement officers to make decisions about when someone should be flagged to ICE.Second of all, the context in which MS-13 was mentioned was itself very specific: someone identified by the sheriff’s department as a “known” gang member but who doesn’t meet the “threshold” of being charged with or convicted of a serious crime. Third, Trump’s response to Mims’s comment wasn’t actually a response to the point she was making. It wasn’t about people in local jails in the US. He first referred to people “trying to come in” to the country and then to people who are being “taken out of the country.” He then launched into a complaint about bad US laws that allow people to reenter the country repeatedly — something that also has nothing to do with the complaint Mims was making.In context, Trump’s “animals” comment was simply part of a riff; something at best tangentially related to the conversation that he and Mims had been having up to that point. That riff may well have been inspired by Mims’s reference to MS-13 in her previous remark. At the same time, though, Trump manifestly wasn’t talking about the same people Mims was talking about: MS-13 members in American jails without serious criminal records. The president often does this. His comments in unscripted settings often fail to follow any obvious train of thought; he often goes off on tangents and rehashes old riffs; he often fails to demonstrate an understanding of the actual policies being discussed. This is why “what did he mean” is so often an open question. But because he’s the president of the United States, ambiguous statements can’t be left ambiguous — they’re going to acquire whatever meaning people can make from them, based on their existing understanding of what kind of person the president is.To people who are more skeptical of the “mainstream media” than they are of the president, the coverage of the president’s remarks seemed like a clear-cut case of “fake news” — reporters taking Trump’s words out of context to make him sound like a racist when he was in fact talking about violent criminals. “I don’t think the term the president used was strong enough,” press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters. “It took an animal to stab a man 100 times and decapitate him and cut his heart out.” And it inspired a wave of fact-checking and finger-wagging from media reporters themselves.The Trump critics who were initially outraged about Trump’s “animals” comment, however, see this entire conversation about the context of Wednesday’s exchange as more or less missing the point.They believe that Trump has shown a willingness to use racist language in the past and has demonstrated that he believes some people of color aren’t really human. Those facts, they believe, are more relevant context than what Sheriff Mims said at the roundtable. And they believe that in that context, it is foolish or even dangerous to present the “animals” remark as if there’s any ambiguity.This is the debate that has defined Donald Trump’s political career. His very first speech as a presidential candidate made a riffing reference to rapists and murderers crossing into the US, spurring outrage from immigrants and progressives that the president had called Mexicans and immigrants “criminals.” Trump gleefully exploited the outrage and parlayed it into a surge in the primary polls. Ever since, his most frequent and enthusiastic rhetorical theme has been that Americans are in danger from criminals coming into the US, and that his particular immigration agenda is the best way to stop them. This is why he keeps talking about MS-13; this is why he keeps dwelling on a few particularly gory crimes and calling the gang “animals.”Trump critics accuse him of labeling all immigrants (or all Latinos) criminals; his critics’ critics counter that he isn’t explicitly talking about all immigrants or all Latinos and that it’s liberals who think nonracial comments are about race.Every iteration of this fight encourages both sides’ viewpoints. It encourages Trump’s defenders — and those who are anti-anti-Trump — to believe that Trump’s words are being taken out of context to suit a preexisting narrative. It encourages Trump’s critics to believe that the president is deliberately engaging in dog-whistle politics because he knows exactly where the line is and how to tiptoe over it without admitting to doing so.The Trump administration won the public argument about whether Trump was, at least ostensibly, referring to MS-13 members. But that doesn’t resolve the argument over whether it was morally okay for him to do that.Indeed, to those who believe the most important point is that no one should ever be described as subhuman, attempts to explain the context of Trump’s remarks were seen as attempts to justify the dehumanization of some people as long as they’re accused of being in a gang. It feels pretty weird watching folks on this website debate who should and shouldn't be described as less than human by the president.On one level, this is a sheer argument of deontological ethics: All people are possessed of innate human dignity, and no act they commit can strip that of them or justify other people acting toward them as if they do not possess it. Most codes of ethics don’t allow people to treat others badly just because they have done bad things. Christianity makes a virtue of mercy and has its messiah tell a mob they are morally unfit to stone an adulteress (a violator of one of the Ten Commandments!) unless they are wholly without sin.On another level, though, this is an instrumental argument that dehumanizing anyone leads to bad outcomes. An entire academic literature is dedicated to the pernicious effects of dehumanizing language; an oversimplified version of that literature, often expressed during the “animals” debate, is that dehumanization of a particular scapegoat group is a necessary component of totalitarian rhetoric. (The implication was often that comments like Trump’s are always a precursor to genocidal violence, which doesn’t hold logically.) More specifically, as criminologist John Pfaff pointed out, a willingness to accept criminals as subhuman encourages law enforcement officers to treat them accordingly, with often horrific results.The people making this argument weren’t primarily Democratic politicians. But after a day or so of the animals debate, Republicans had shifted to the idea that they had jiujitsued liberals into defending MS-13, and that that would help them in November. This, too, is a fixture of dialogue in the age of Trump: even people who wouldn’t defend his statements on the merits believe that they create an advantageous political situation for his party by inspiring the other side to do something politically counterproductive.It seems logical that MS-13 is inherently a winning issue for Trump and a losing one for Democrats (though it’s worth noting that in the one post-Trump race where the tie between immigration and crime was central to the campaign, the Virginia gubernatorial election, the Democrat won).But it’s another example of people talking past each other. No one is saying that it is politically useful to adopt the message of “Trump was just talking about violent MS-13 criminals, but they are people too.” Trump’s critics are either emphasizing that it is true that MS-13 members are also human beings or making the argument that Trump doesn’t really just mean MS-13 members when he says “animals.”The problem with fighting about whom Trump meant when he said what he said is that, on a policy level, what he said does not actually matter.His administration is not focusing on deporting people who have committed particularly heinous crimes, gang members, or people with criminal records. From Trump’s inauguration to the end of 2017, ICE arrested 45,436 immigrants without criminal records.On Thursday, in the midst of the furor over the “animals” comments, ICE released new data for the first three months of 2018 — showing that an additional 13,300 immigrants without criminal records were arrested from January to March.To be sure, ICE arrests of immigrants with criminal records ticked up slightly from the last year of the Obama administration (in which immigration enforcement was subdued compared to previous years) to the Trump administration. But arrests of immigrants without criminal records have also spiked. During President Obama’s last year, about 16 percent of ICE arrests were of noncriminal immigrants; each month since July 2017, between 32 and 40 percent of arrestees have been noncriminals.The Trump administration is still deporting fewer noncriminal immigrants than the Obama administration did circa 2011, and the proportion of deportees who are noncriminals is usually smaller than the proportion of arrestees who are. But the Trump administration is aiming to not just ramp back up to the deportation peak of Obama’s first term but surpass it, and that’s going to require arresting and deporting a lot of immigrants without criminal records.If Trump understands his own administration’s policy, he’s never acknowledged it in public. He sticks to the same rhetorical move every time: refer to some specific criminals, call them horrible people and animals, say that their evil justifies his immigration policy, and allow the conflation of all immigrants and all Latinos with criminals and animals to remain subtext.This isn’t unique to Trump. An entire era of American criminal justice policy was defined by this rhetorical move: Politicians attacked each other over horrific cases of leniency gone wrong, or with the threat of child “superpredators” roaming the streets, and the fear of those “worst of the worst” criminals led to policies that swept millions of people into the criminal justice system.As Trump has amped up his rhetoric about MS-13, local and federal law enforcement officials have started rounding up immigrant teens on the basis of suspected gang membership — no matter how dubious those claims are. In a 2017 feature about MS-13 and Long Island’s immigrant community, Jonathan Blitzer of the New Yorker says that one Long Island teen was arrested in a gang sweep for having a Salvadoran flag as his profile picture (whose dominant color, bright blue, is also used by MS-13). One ex-girlfriend of a gang member told Blitzer that when they needed to lie low, “Carlos and his friends from MS-13 would change their style of dress” — like swapping out their shoes — and then “mocked the police for being slow to catch on” to the fact that they weren’t wearing their “characteristic” gang attire. “Immigrant teens without ties to the gang,” meanwhile, were at risk: They “didn’t necessarily know which clothes were off limits.”In one high-profile case from 2017, ICE agents made several attempts to strip protections from an immigrant covered under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program by claiming he was a gang member; the immigrant, however, claims that the ICE agents falsified a document to make it look like he admitted to being in a gang (and federal judges have believed him).These things don’t just happen because Donald Trump uses the word “animals.” But they don’t get the attention that Trump’s words do. And while plenty of people are willing to defend calling gang members “animals,” few are interested in looking at whether the immigration enforcement system as it exists draws the clear distinction they claim to have heard from Trump.The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.The story of the first generation Ghanian-American student accepted by all eight Ivy league schools is wonderful, but it also stirs up the tension between black Americans and recent African immigrants — especially when you describe him as "not a typical African-American kid." This article is from the archive of our partner .The story of the first-generation Ghanian-American student accepted by all eight Ivy league schools is wonderful, but it also stirs up the tension between black Americans and recent African immigrants — especially when you describe him as "not a typical African-American kid." That's been the reaction to USA Today's profile on Kwasi Enin, a Long Island high schooler who got into the nation's most competitive schools through hard work and, according to IvyWise CEO Katherine Cohen, being African (and being male). At one point the piece reads:Being a first-generation American from Ghana also helps him stand out, Cohen says. "He's not a typical African-American kid.""Not a typical African-American kid" is being read as an allusion to the lazy black American stereotype. The tension comes from the fact that some African immigrants buy into that stereotype, which gets turned into "Africans don't like black people." This has almost nothing to do with Enin, who is obviously a remarkable young man, and everything to do with how America perceives and portrays black Americans and African immigrants. In January, Luvvie Ajayi, a Nigerian-born immigrant, tried to explain "akata," a word some Nigerians use to refer to black Americans that translates into wild animal. (Note: A lot of Nigerians use akata to mean "ghetto" as well. My mom once told me I was dressed like an akata girl because I wanted to wear sweatpants in public.) She argued in a series of tweets, collected by Clutch, that the reason some Africans believe black Americans should be doing better is because they don't know about the history of black Americans but see their own success as a reason blacks should excel as well. "Africans who come to the U.S. are statistically more successful than African Americans and they think 'if I could do it, why not them?'" she wrote. American society holds that same view as well. A 2007 study covered by the Washington Post found that a quarter of black students admitted to elite colleges were African immigrants, though they only represented 13 percent of America's college-age black population. The study's authors several theories on why black immigrants do better, including "to white observers black immigrants seem more polite, less hostile, more solicitous and 'easier to get along with.' Native blacks are perceived in precisely the opposite fashion." Lani Guinier, a Harvard professor, argued instead that schools were attempting to "resolve historic wrongs against native black Americans by enrolling immigrants who look like them" but had different experiences. "In part, it has to do with coming from a country ... where blacks were in the majority and did not experience the stigma that black children did in the United States," Guinier said. Either explanation creates a divide — as if Africans can only succeed at the expense of black Americans, or vice versa.This article is from the archive of our partner The Wire.We want to hear what you think about this article. Submit a letter to the editor or write to letters@theatlantic.com.TheAtlantic.com Copyright (c) 2019 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.The AtlanticRemember me·Forgot password?Get instant updates from your friends, industry experts, favorite celebrities, and what's happening around the world.What is Twitter? Learn more.The Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor. (Photo: Thomas Dwyer)Immigration seems to be ever present in current political and public debate in the United States, with the topic central in the 2016 presidential campaign and since then, amid ongoing policy conversations about border wall construction, refugee resettlement cuts, family separation, and much more. Yet even as positions taken by political parties and individuals seem hardened, immigration flows and the makeup of the U.S. immigrant population have been changing in significant, though not always fully appreciated, ways.Among the changes: The overall immigrant population continues to grow, but at a slower rate than before the 2007-09 recession. Recent immigrants are more likely to be from Asia than from Mexico, and are also more likely to have a college degree. The size of the unauthorized population appears to be on the decline. Deportations from within the United States are rising. And the United States in 2018 resettled the smallest number of refugees since formal creation of the refugee resettlement program in 1980.To help inform discussions around immigration, this Spotlight offers in one accessible resource the most authoritative, unbiased, and current data available about the 44.5 million immigrants resident in the United States as of 2017. By compiling some of the most frequently requested facts and figures, this article provides answers to questions such as: What are the trends shaping immigration to our country? How many people have immigrated to the United States, and via what channels? How many arrived as refugees, and from which countries? Has the number of unauthorized immigrants changed in recent years? What jobs do immigrants fill? And how many U.S. residents are either immigrants or the children of immigrants?The article draws on the most recent resources and data from the Migration Policy Institute (MPI); the U.S. Census Bureau (using its 2017 American Community Survey [ACS], 2018 Current Population Survey [CPS], and 2000 decennial census); and the U.S. Departments of Homeland Security (DHS) and State. (Note: DHS and State Department data refer to fiscal years that begin on October 1 and end on September 30; ACS and CPS data refer to calendar years). For more detailed information on U.S. and global immigration data sources and one-click access to these datasets, see the MPI report Immigration Data Matters.Click on the bullet points for more information on each topic:How many immigrants reside in the United States?More than 44.5 million immigrants resided in the United States in 2017, the historical high since census records have been kept. One in seven U.S. residents is foreign born, according to 2017 American Community Survey (ACS) data. While immigrants’ current share—13.7 percent—of the overall U.S. population (325.7 million people) has been increasing since the record low marked in 1970, it remains below the historical record of 14.8 percent hit in 1890.Between 2016 and 2017, the foreign-born population increased by about 787,000, or almost 2 percent—a rate higher than the 1 percent growth experienced between 2015 and 2016, but lower than the 3 percent increase between 2013 and 2014.How have the number and share of immigrants changed over time?Data on the nativity of the U.S. population was first collected in the 1850 census. That year, there were 2.2 million immigrants, representing nearly 10 percent of the overall population.Between 1860 and 1920, the immigrant share fluctuated between 13 percent and almost 15 percent of the overall population, peaking at 14.8 percent in 1890, largely due to high levels of immigration from Europe.Restrictive immigration laws in 1921 and 1924—which kept the channels to permanent immigration open almost exclusively to northern and western European immigrants—coupled with the Great Depression and World War II, led to a sharp drop in new arrivals from the Eastern Hemisphere. The foreign-born share steadily declined, hitting a record low of 4.7 percent in 1970 (9.6 million; see Figure 1).Since then, the share and number of immigrants have increased rapidly, mainly because of large-scale immigration from Latin America and Asia, with the foreign-born population standing at 44.5 million as of 2017. Important shifts in U.S. immigration law (including the Immigration Act of 1965 that abolished national-origin admission quotas, the Refugee Act of 1980, and preferential treatment of Cuban immigrants); the United States’ growing economic and military presence in Asia and Latin America; economic ties, powerful immigrant networks, and deep migration history between the United States and its southern neighbors; and major economic transformations and political instability in countries around the world all have helped usher in the vast diversification of immigration flows.Figure 1. Size and Share of the Foreign-Born Population in the United States, 1850-2017Source: Migration Policy Institute (MPI) tabulation of data from U.S. Census Bureau, 2010-17 American Community Surveys (ACS), and 1970, 1990, and 2000 Decennial Census. All other data are from Campbell J. Gibson and Emily Lennon, "Historical Census Statistics on the Foreign-Born Population of the United States: 1850 to 1990" (Working Paper no. 29., U.S. Census Bureau, Washington, DC, 1999).Definitions"Foreign born" and "immigrant" are used interchangeably and refer to persons with no U.S. citizenship at birth. This population includes naturalized citizens, lawful permanent residents, refugees and asylees, persons on certain temporary visas, and the unauthorized.Geographical regions: MPI follows the definition of Latin America as put forth by the United Nations and the U.S. Census Bureau, which spans Central America (including Mexico), the Caribbean, and South America. For more information about geographical regions, see the U.S. Census Bureau and United Nations Statistics Division.How do today’s top countries of origin compare to those 50 years ago?In 2017, Mexicans accounted for approximately 25 percent of immigrants in the United States, making them by far the largest foreign-born group. Indians and Chinese (including immigrants from Hong Kong but not Taiwan) were the next two largest groups, each comprising close to 6 percent, followed by Filipinos at 5 percent. Rounding out the top ten were El Salvador, Vietnam, Cuba, and the Dominican Republic (about 3 percent each); and South Korea and Guatemala (approximately 2 percent). Together, these countries were the origin for 57 percent of the U.S. immigrant population in 2017.The predominance of Latin American and Asian immigration in the late 20th and early 21st centuries starkly contrasts with the trend in the mid-1900s, when immigrants were largely European. In the 1960s no single country accounted for more than 15 percent of the total immigrant population. Italians were the top origin group, making up 13 percent of the foreign born in 1960, followed by Germans and Canadians (about 10 percent each).How many immigrants have entered the United States since 2010, and what are the leading sending countries?Twenty-one percent of the 44.5 million immigrants in the United States in 2017 entered in 2010 or later, 26 percent arrived between 2000 and 2009, 22 percent between 1990 and 1999, and 31 percent before 1990.While immigrants from Mexico dominated the flows post-1970, the makeup of newcomers has changed since the 2007-09 recession. Recently arrived immigrants are more likely to come from Asia, with India and China leading the way. Countries such as the Dominican Republic, the Philippines, Cuba, El Salvador, and Venezuela have also seen sizeable emigration to the United States. By contrast, there were fewer Mexican immigrants in the United States in 2017 than in 2010, representing the biggest decline of all immigrant groups.How many U.S. residents are of recent immigrant origin?Immigrants and their U.S.-born children now number approximately 89.4 million people, or 28 percent of the overall U.S. population, according to the 2018 Current Population Survey (CPS). Pew Research Center projects that the immigrant-origin share will rise to about 36 percent by 2065.DefinitionsCollege-educated persons are defined as adults 25 years and older with a bachelor's degree or higher.The concept of race as used by the Census Bureau reflects the race or races with which individuals most closely self-identify. Race categories include both racial and national-origin groups.Hispanic and Latino are ethnic, not racial, categories. They include individuals who classified themselves in one of the specific Spanish, Hispanic, or Latino categories listed on the Census 2000 questionnaire—"Mexican, Mexican Am., Chicano," "Puerto Rican," or "Cuban"—as well as those who indicate that they are "other Spanish/Hispanic/Latino."Persons who indicated that they are "other Spanish/Hispanic/Latino" include those whose origins are from Spain, the Spanish-speaking countries of Central or South America, the Dominican Republic, or people who self-identify more generally as Spanish, Spanish-American, Hispanic, Hispano, Latino, and so on.Read more about Census Bureau definitions here.What is the median age for immigrants?Overall, the immigrant population in 2017 was older than the U.S.-born population, with a median age of 44.8 years as compared to 36.2 years for the native born. The latter are younger largely because most children of immigrants are born in the United States and a significant share are under age 18.In 2017, fewer than 1 percent of immigrants were under age 5 (compared to 7 percent for the native born), approximately 5 percent were ages 5 to 17 (versus 18 percent), 79 percent were ages 18 to 64 (compared to 59 percent), and 16 percent were ages 65 and older (the same as the U.S. born).What is the female share of the immigrant population?In 2017, approximately 52 percent of immigrants were female. The share has fluctuated slightly over the past four decades; women accounted for 53 percent of immigrants in 1980, 51 percent in 1990, 50 percent in 2000, and 51 percent in 2010.What is the racial makeup of immigrants?Forty-six percent of immigrants in 2017 reported their race as single-race White, 27 percent as Asian, 9 percent as Black, and 16 percent as some other race. About 2 percent reported having two or more races.How many immigrants are Hispanic or Latino?In 2017, 44 percent of U.S. immigrants (19.7 million people) reported having Hispanic or Latino origins.Note: The Census Bureau classifies Hispanic and Latino as ethnic categories, separate from the racial categories listed above (see Definitions box for more information).How many Hispanics in the United States are immigrants?The majority of U.S. Hispanics are native born. Of the 58.8 million people in 2017 who self-identified as Hispanic or Latino, 34 percent (19.7 million) were immigrants and 66 percent (39.1 million) were native-born.Which languages are most frequently spoken at home?In 2017, approximately 78 percent (239.3 million) of the 306 million people ages 5 and older in the United States reported speaking only English at home.The remaining 22 percent (66.5 million) reported speaking a language other than English at home. Of the top languages, Spanish was by far the most common (62 percent), followed by Chinese (5 percent, including Mandarin and Cantonese), Tagalog (almost 3 percent), and Vietnamese, Arabic, French (including Cajun), and Korean (about 2 percent each). The remaining languages in the top 15 each accounted for approximately 1 percent: Russian, German, Haitian Creole, Hindi, Portuguese, Italian, Polish, and Urdu.What percentage of immigrants are Limited English Proficient?In 2017, approximately 48 percent (21.2 million) of 44.2 million immigrants ages 5 and older were Limited English Proficient (LEP).Immigrants account for 82 percent of all LEP individuals over age 5, while native-born individuals account for 18 percent.Note: The term "Limited English Proficient" refers to persons ages 5 and older who reported speaking English "not at all," "not well," or "well" on their survey questionnaire. Individuals who reported speaking “only English” or speaking English "very well" are considered proficient in English.What share of the immigrant population has a college education?In 2017, 31 percent (12 million) of the 39 million immigrants ages 25 and older had a bachelor's degree or higher, compared to 32 percent of U.S.-born adults (see Figure 2). Notably, the share of college-educated immigrants was much higher—47 percent—among those who entered the country in the previous five years (between 2012 and 2017).Figure 2. Educational Attainment of U.S.-Born, Immigrant, and Recently Arrived Immigrant Residents, 2017Source: MPI tabulation of data from the U.S. Census Bureau 2017 ACS.Educational attainment varies by country of origin. In 2017, the top five countries of origin for immigrants with a bachelor’s degree or more were India (79 percent), Taiwan (72 percent), Egypt (68 percent), Latvia (67 percent), and Kuwait (65 percent).Which states have the largest number of immigrants and which ones have experienced the fastest growth of their immigrant populations?In 2017, the top five U.S. states by number of immigrants were California (10.7 million), Texas (4.9 million), New York (4.5 million), Florida (4.4 million), and New Jersey (2.1 million).When classified by the share of immigrants out of the total state population, the top five states in 2017 were California (27 percent), New York (23 percent), New Jersey (23 percent), Florida (21 percent), and Nevada (20 percent).While traditional immigrant destinations lead in terms of absolute number of new immigrants, other states have seen much larger relative growth in their immigrant populations (see Table 1).Table 1. Top Five States by Absolute and Percent Growth in Immigrant Population, 1990-2000 and 2000-17Note: In some states, the initial foreign-born population was quite small. Thus, relatively small absolute increases in the immigrant population in these states have translated into high percent growthSource: MPI tabulation of data from the U.S. Census Bureau 2017 ACS and 1990 and 2000 Decennial Census.Definitions"Civilian labor force"—civilian persons ages 16 and older who were either employed or unemployed but looking for work in the week prior to participation in the American Community Survey or decennial census.How many immigrants are in the U.S. civilian labor force?Immigrants accounted for 17 percent (28 million) of the 163.7 million persons in the civilian labor force in 2017. Between 1970 and 2017, the percentage of the foreign born in the labor force more than tripled, from 5 percent to 17 percent. Over the same period, the foreign-born share of the total population grew more slowly: from less than 5 percent to just under 14 percent.What types of jobs do immigrants hold?Of the 26.8 million employed foreign-born workers ages 16 and older in 2017, the largest share, more than 32 percent, worked in management, professional, and related occupations. See Figure 3 for other occupations.Figure 3. Employed Workers in the Civilian Labor Force (ages 16 and older), by Nativity and Occupation, 2017Note: Numbers may not add up to 100 as they are rounded to the nearest whole number.Source: MPI tabulation of data from the U.S. Census Bureau 2017 ACS.What share of immigrants have health insurance?In 2017, approximately 57 percent of U.S. immigrants had private health insurance (compared to 69 percent of the U.S. born), and 30 percent had public health insurance coverage (compared to 36 percent of the native born).Since implementation of the Affordable Care Act in 2014, health insurance coverage has improved for both the U.S. born and immigrants. From 2013 to 2017, the immigrant uninsured rate fell from 32 percent to 20 percent, and the rate for the native born fell from 12 percent to 7 percent.Note: Health insurance coverage is calculated only for the civilian, noninstitutionalized population. Since some people may simultaneously hold both private and public health insurance coverage, estimates of those with public health insurance and those with public coverage may overlap. Their sum therefore may be greater than the total number of people with health insurance.Definitions"Second-generation immigrant children"—any U.S.-born child with at least one foreign-born parent. "First-generation immigrant children"—any foreign-born child with at least one foreign-born parent. "Child with immigrant parents"—both first- and second-generation immigrant children. Note: The estimates in this section include only children under age 18 who reside with at least one parent.How many U.S. children live with immigrant parents?In 2017, approximately 18.2 million children under age 18 lived with at least one immigrant parent. They accounted for 26 percent of the 70 million children under age 18 in the United States, up from 13 percent in 1990 and 19 percent in 2000.Second-generation children—born in the United States to at least one foreign-born parent—accounted for 88 percent (16 million) of all children under age 18 with immigrant parents. The remaining 12 percent (2.2 million) were born outside the United States.How has the number of children in immigrant families changed over time?Between 1990 and 2000, the number of children ages 17 and under with immigrant parents grew 60 percent, from 8.2 million to 13.1 million. Between 2000 and 2017, the number grew by another 39 percent, from 13.1 million to 18.2 million.The population of first-generation immigrant children grew by 43 percent between 1990 and 2000 (from 1.9 million to 2.7 million), but then declined 19 percent between 2000 and 2017 (from 2.7 million to 2.2 million).In contrast, the number of second-generation immigrant children has grown steadily since 1990. Between 1990 and 2000, the number increased by 65 percent (from 6.3 million to 10.4 million). Between 2000 and 2017, this population grew 54 percent (from 10.4 million to almost 16 million).How many children living with immigrant parents are in low-income families?In 2017, there were 27.4 million children under age 18 living in low-income families (i.e., with family incomes below 200 percent of the federal poverty threshold). Of them, 8.8 million (or 32 percent) were children of immigrants.Which states have the largest number of children in immigrant families and which ones have experienced the fastest growth of this population?In 2017, the top five states by the total number of children under age 18 living with immigrant parents were California (4.1 million), Texas (2.5 million), New York (1.5 million), Florida (1.4 million), and New Jersey (767,000). These states accounted for 56 percent of the 18.2 million children with immigrant parents residing in the United States.In terms of the share of children with immigrant parents, the top five states in 2017 were California (48 percent of all children in the state), New Jersey (40 percent), Nevada (38 percent), New York (37 percent), and Texas (35 percent).While traditional immigrant destinations experience the largest absolute growth in children with immigrant parents, other states have seen much larger relative growth (see Table 2).Table 2. Top Five States by Absolute and Percent Growth in Children with Immigrant Parents, 1990-2000 and 2000-17Note: In some states, the initial number of children with immigrant parents was quite small. Thus, relatively small absolute increases in the immigrant population in these states have translated into high percent growth.Source: MPI tabulation of data from the U.S. Census Bureau 2017 ACS and 1990 and 2000 Decennial Census.How many immigrants obtained lawful permanent residence (aka getting a green card) in 2017?In fiscal year (FY) 2017, 1.1 million immigrants became lawful permanent residents (LPRs), also known as green-card holders. The number of new LPRs in 2017 decreased by 5 percent from 2016 (1.2 million). In the past decade, the number of new LPRs annually has ranged from 991,000 (2013) to 1.2 million (2016).In recent years, green-card holders have been roughly evenly divided between those already living in the United States who are adjusting their status and those applying from outside the country. Almost half (49 percent, or 549,000) of the 1.1 million new LPRs in 2017 received green cards from within the United States. Many of these new permanent residents are spouses, minor children, and parents of U.S. citizens; or persons who arrived as refugees or as temporary workers.A slightly higher number of new LPRs (578,000, or 51 percent) were persons granted this status from abroad. The share of new arrivals rose steadily in the past decade from 41-42 percent in 2008-09, to 46-47 percent in 2013-14, and surpassing 50 percent in 2016. The majority of new arrivals are immediate family members of U.S. citizens and LPRs.Under which categories are permanent immigrants admitted?There are four main pathways to obtain a green card: through a family relationship, employment sponsorship, humanitarian protection (refugees and asylees), and the Diversity Visa (DV) lottery.Overall, of the 1.1 million immigrants who received green cards in 2017, 46 percent were immediate relatives of U.S. citizens (immediate relatives have unlimited annual visas), followed by another 21 percent of family-related immigrants (whose admission is limited by visa and country caps).Thirteen percent adjusted from refugee or asylee status. About 12 percent of LPRs were either sponsored by their employers or were able to self-sponsor, including investors. Roughly 5 percent were diversity lottery winners.What are the top five countries of birth for new permanent immigrants in 2017?The top five countries of birth were Mexico (15 percent), mainland China and Cuba (6 percent each), and India and the Dominican Republic (5 percent each). These countries represented about 38 percent of all persons who received green cards in 2017.How many people are selected in the Diversity Visa lottery and where do they come from?In 2017, 51,600 people received green cards as diversity immigrants (from countries with low rates of immigration), representing approximately 5 percent of the 1.1 million new LPRs.The leading countries of birth of DV immigrants were Nepal, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Egypt, which each accounted for about 6 percent of DV immigrants; followed by Ethiopia, Iran, Uzbekistan, and Albania, with 5 percent each.For some countries, the diversity visa lottery represents a major share of all new LPRs. For example, among Algerians who received a green card in 2017, 62 percent did so via the green-card lottery. Shares were also high for Uzbekistan (58 percent) and Tajikistan (56 percent) and represented between 40 and 50 percent of LPRs born in Albania, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Togo, Sudan, Benin, and Moldova.Created in 1990, the lottery sets aside 55,000 diversity visas annually, of which 5,000 must be used for applicants under the Nicaraguan and Central America Relief Act of 1997. Interest in the lottery is significantly higher than there are available visas: About 14.7 million qualified applications were registered for the DV-2018, in total covering 23.1 million applicants, their spouses, and their minor children. The number registering in the DV-2018 was 61 percent higher than the 9.2 million registered for the DV-2009. (The application number varies each year depending on which countries are eligible.) Before receiving permission to immigrate, lottery winners must provide proof of a high school education or its equivalent or show two years of work experience within the past five years in an occupation that requires at least two years of training or experience. They also must pass a medical exam and a background check.How many people have temporary visas?According to the most recently available Department of Homeland Security (DHS) estimates at the time of this writing, 2.3 million immigrants on various temporary visas resided in the United States during 2016, up from about 2 million in 2015. Almost half (1,100,000) were temporary workers and their families, followed by 870,000 foreign students and their families (40 percent).Sixty-one percent were from Asia. Nationals of countries in Europe and North America accounted for 15 percent each. The top five countries of origin—India, China, Mexico, Canada, and South Korea—accounted for 57 percent of all residents on temporary visas.Note: This estimate of temporary visa holders includes temporary workers, international students, exchange visitors, diplomats, and representatives of foreign governments and international organizations. It excludes tourists and other short-term visitors. North America includes Canada, Bermuda, Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean.How many people entered the United States on nonimmigrant visas? In 2016, 42.7 million individuals entered the United States as I-94 nonimmigrants on various temporary visas. On average, each I-94 nonimmigrant was admitted 1.8 times. This is the first time the DHS Office of Immigration Statistics (OIS) estimated the number of unique individuals who came temporarily, as opposed to the number of nonimmigrant admissions or entries.Most of these nonimmigrants, 34.2 million, entered as tourists, followed by 3.7 million business visitors. Of these, 15 million tourists and 1.7 million business travelers were from Visa Waiver countries. Further, 1 million international students entered on F-1 visas. OIS estimated that additionally about 290,300 individuals were admitted on high-skilled worker H-1B visas (mostly from India, China, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Mexico) and 81,600 on nonagricultural temporary or seasonal worker H-2B visas (mostly from Mexico, Jamaica, Guatemala, South Africa, and Canada).How many nonimmigrant visas does the State Department issue?In FY 2018, the annual number of nonimmigrant visas issued by the State Department decreased for the third time to 9 million—a 7 percent decline from the 9.7 million issued in FY 2017.The Trump administration implemented a number of policies in 2017 and 2018 that could lead to a decline in admissions, including the travel ban barring individuals from certain countries from U.S. entry, lengthened visa application processes, and greater discretion for consular officers to deny visas. From FY 2015 to FY 2018, visa refusal rates for tourists and business travelers from travel-ban countries increased significantly: all applications from North Korea were denied, followed by Somalia (90 percent), Iran (88 percent), Yemen (83 percent), Syria (77 percent), and Libya and Venezuela (74 percent each). Furthermore, during the same period, visa refusal rates rose for visitors from some major non-travel ban countries, including Mexico (from 20 percent to 25 percent), mainland China (from 10 percent to 17 percent), and India (from 24 percent to 26 percent).Three-quarters of the 9 million nonimmigrant visas issued in FY 2018 were temporary business and tourist visas (B and BCC visas).The next largest visa class was for academic students and exchange visitors and their family members (F and J visa categories), who comprised around 8 percent of all nonimmigrant visas issued in FY 2018. The third largest group of nonimmigrant visas was given to temporary workers and trainees and their family members (H visa categories), who comprised 7 percent of nonimmigrant visas.Looking at the distribution of temporary visas issued in 2018 by region of origin, the largest shares were issued to nationals from Asia (43 percent), North America (22 percent, including Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean), and South America (18 percent). The remainder: Europe (12 percent), Africa (6 percent), and Oceania (0.7 percent).Note: The number of visas issued does not necessarily match the number of foreign nationals who entered the United States in the same year because some nonimmigrant visas may not be used.How many nonimmigrant admissions does DHS grant in a year? In total, DHS granted 181 million nonimmigrant admissions in 2017, of which 103 million were admissions of Canadians traveling for business or pleasure and Mexicans who possess a nonresident Border Crossing Card (i.e., laser visa). These travelers are exempt from completing the I-94 arrival/departure form at the port of entry, thus DHS does not provide characteristics for this group.In 2017, there were 77.6 million total temporary admissions of I-94 nonimmigrants, a slight uptick from 77.1 million in 2016. (See Table 3.)Table 3. Nonimmigrant Admissions by Category, FY 2017Source: DHS Office of Immigration Statistics, Yearbook of Immigration Statistics 2017.Note: Nonimmigrant admissions represent the number of entries. Individuals may have multiple entries within the year. OIS reports characteristics of nonimmigrants who must complete an I-94 arrival/departure form at entry.Notes on Refugees and AsyleesWhat is the difference between a refugee and an asylee? In the United States, the main difference is the person's location at the time of application. Refugees are nearly always outside of the United States when they are considered for resettlement, whereas asylum seekers submit their applications while physically present in or at a port of entry to the United States. Asylum seekers can submit an asylum request either affirmatively or defensively.The affirmative asylum process applies to persons who initially file an asylum application with USCIS as well as applicants who subsequently have their application referred by USCIS to the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR). The defensive asylum process applies to persons in removal proceedings who appear before EOIR and people who apply for asylum at U.S. borders and points of entry.How many refugees entered the United States, and where were they from?Every year, the president in consultation with Congress sets the annual refugee admissions ceiling and allocations by region of origin. For FY 2019, the annual ceiling was set at 30,000, the lowest since the program began in 1980.In FY 2018, 22,491 refugees were resettled in the United States, amounting to less than half of the admission ceiling of 45,000 allocated for that year—largely due to processing delays and policies put in place to increase vetting of refugees. This represents a 58 percent drop compared to the 53,716 admitted in 2017.The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), Myanmar (also known as Burma), Ukraine, Bhutan, and Eritrea were the primary countries of nationality, accounting for 78 percent (17,565) of all refugees resettled in 2018. Rounding out the top ten were Afghanistan, El Salvador, Pakistan, Russia, and Ethiopia. Together, nationals of the top ten countries comprised 90 percent (20,349) of all refugee arrivals in 2018.Table 4. Top Ten Countries of Refugee Admissions by Nationality, FY 2018Source: MPI tabulation of Worldwide Refugee Admissions Processing System (WRAPS) data from the State Department’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration.How many asylum applications were filed and where are asylum seekers from?In FY 2018, an estimated 106,147 affirmative asylum applications were received by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)—25 percent fewer than the 141,695 in FY 2017. This is the first decline in application volume after eight years of growth. Applicants for affirmative asylum must be present in the United States, and do not include those seeking asylum through the defensive asylum process while in removal proceedings.Venezuela was the top country of origin for received affirmative asylum applications, with 28,485 in FY 2018; followed by Guatemala (10,177), El Salvador (9,157), China (8,114), and Mexico (6,636).Meanwhile, 111,887 defensive asylum applications were filed with the Department of Justice’s immigration court system, known as the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR), in FY 2018—an 8 percent decrease from 121,418 applications filed a year earlier.What is the asylum approval rate?According to USCIS, in FY 2018, 30 percent of affirmative asylum adjudicated petitions were approved, a decline from the 43 percent in FY 2016 and 37 percent in FY 2017.The same downward trend also applies to asylum petitions adjudicated by immigration courts. In FY 2018, 33 percent of such petitions were approved, versus 43 percent in FY 2016 and 37 percent in FY 2017.How many people receive asylum status?According to the most recent data at the time of this writing, in FY 2016, 20,455 individuals, including principal applicants and their spouses and/or unmarried children under age 21, were granted asylum after seeking protection upon or after arrival in the United States—a 22 percent drop from 26,124 a year earlier. An additional 5,490 individuals outside the United States were approved for asylum as immediate family members of principal applicants. (Note that this number reflects travel documents issued to these family members, not their arrival in the United States.)The big drop in asylum grants and the follow-to-join cases are mainly due to the mounting backlog in the USCIS Asylum Division, as a growing number of USCIS asylum officers have been diverted from the affirmative interview process to conduct credible and reasonable fear screening interviews with adults and families apprehended or found inadmissible at the U.S. border who express an intention to seek asylum.China was the top country of origin for those receiving asylum, with 4,484 persons (or 22 percent of total asylum grants). The next four largest countries of origin were El Salvador (2,157), Guatemala (1,949), Honduras (1,505), and Mexico (919). Together, nationals of these five countries made up 32 percent of those receiving asylum in FY 2016.What is the current backlog for asylum applicants?Due to the large application volume and limited resources, both the affirmative and defensive asylum systems have extensive backlogs. At the end of January 2019, according to USCIS, there were 352,277 affirmative cases pending; EOIR reported 821,726 total immigration cases pending, of which MPI estimated roughly 30 percent were defensive asylum ones.How many unauthorized immigrants are in the United States?The Migration Policy Institute (MPI) estimated 11.3 million unauthorized immigrants resided in the United States in 2016. About half of all unauthorized immigrants resided in three states: California (27 percent), Texas (14 percent), and New York (8 percent). The vast majority (82 percent) lived in 174 counties with 10,000 or more unauthorized immigrants each, of which the top five—Los Angeles County, CA; Harris County, TX; Cook County, IL; Orange County, CA; and Queens County, NY—accounted for 20 percent of all unauthorized immigrants.Note: MPI is among a small number of organizations that generate estimates of the unauthorized population because the Census Bureau does not. It is important to acknowledge that the estimates issued by MPI and others (including the DHS Office of Immigration Statistics, Pew Research Center, and Center for Migration Studies of New York) are based on different methodologies and data sources. Hence the estimates are not fully comparable.Where are unauthorized immigrants from?Mexicans and Central Americans are estimated to account for roughly two-thirds (67 percent or 7.6 million) of the unauthorized immigrants in the United States as of 2012-16, MPI estimates. About 1.8 million (16 percent) were from Asia; 685,000 (6 percent) from South America; 579,000 (5 percent) from Europe, Canada, or Oceania; 351,000 (3 percent) from the Caribbean; and 318,000 (32 percent) from Africa.The top five countries of birth for unauthorized immigrants were Mexico (53 percent), El Salvador (6 percent), Guatemala (5 percent), and China and Honduras (3 percent each).How many unauthorized immigrants live with children under age 18?As of 2012-16, about 4 million unauthorized immigrants (37 percent of the overall unauthorized population ages 15 and older) lived with one or more children under age 18, MPI estimates. Of this group, about 82 percent (3.3 million) resided with at least one U.S.-citizen child under age 18, and 17 percent (697,000) lived with only non-U.S.-citizen children.How many children under age 18 live with at least one unauthorized immigrant parent?Approximately 5.1 million children under age 18 lived with an unauthorized immigrant parent during the 2012-16 period, representing 7 percent of the U.S. child population. About 80 percent (4.1 million) of these children were U.S. citizens, another 16 percent (809,000) were themselves unauthorized, and 3 percent (167,000) were legally present, including LPRs and those with temporary visas.How many people were eligible for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and how many applications have been received since its launch in 2012? The DACA program, announced on June 15, 2012, offered a two-year grant of deportation relief and work authorization to eligible young unauthorized immigrants. Requirements for eligibility included:MPI estimates that as of 2018 approximately 1.3 million people met all criteria to apply under the original DACA program, 408,000 met all criteria except for education, and 120,000 would be eligible upon turning 15 provided they remain in school.However, on September 5, 2017, the Trump administration announced the rescission of DACA, with a six-month wind-down. This decision has been challenged in multiple federal courts and a nationwide injunction has kept the DACA program in place, but only for people who currently have or in the past have had DACA benefits.Between August 15, 2012, when USCIS began accepting applications, and September 30, 2018 (the most recent data available at the time of this writing), 908,755 initial applications were accepted for consideration. Thus, as of September 30, 2018, about 70 percent of the immediately eligible population had applied. USCIS approved 823,283 (or 91 percent) of these initial applications; 79,763 (9 percent) were denied, and the remainder were pending.The top states of residence for accepted initial applications since the program’s inception are California (27 percent), Texas (16 percent), New York (6 percent), and Illinois and Florida (5 percent each). The top countries of origin are Mexico (78 percent), El Salvador (4 percent), Guatemala (3 percent), Honduras (2 percent), and Peru and Brazil (1 percent each).On June 5, 2014, USCIS began accepting DACA renewal applications, and as of September 30, 2018 had accepted 1,352,730 such applications (with some DACA holders renewing for the second or third time). By the end of September 2018, 96 percent (1,297,626) of the renewal applications had been approved, with 3 percent (40,392) pending, and 1 percent (13,717) denied.How many unauthorized immigrants were active participants of the program?As of August 30, 2018, according to most recent data from USCIS, 699,350 individuals were current DACA recipients. MPI estimates that 54 percent of the immediately eligible population as of 2018 were participating the program.The top states of residence for DACA active participants were California (29 percent), Texas (16 percent), Illinois and New York (about 5 percent each), followed by Florida, Arizona, and North Carolina (about 4 percent each).The top countries of origin of active DACA program participants were Mexico (80 percent), El Salvador (4 percent), Guatemala (3 percent), Honduras (2 percent), and Peru and South Korea (1 percent each).How many people are covered by Temporary Protected Status?Since the enactment of the Immigration Act of 1990, the United States has occasionally granted a form of humanitarian relief called Temporary Protected Status (TPS) when the home countries of foreign nationals in the United States experience natural disasters, armed conflicts, or other circumstances making return unsafe. TPS offers work authorization and protection from deportation for six- to 18-month periods. The first country to be designated for TPS was El Salvador in 1990 to protect Salvadorans who had fled the country’s civil war. Since 1990, 22 countries have been designated for TPS. Ten countries currently are designated: El Salvador, Haiti, Honduras, Nepal, Nicaragua, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. TPS protects nearly 318,000 people from ten countries, with the largest groups being Salvadorans (195,000), Hondurans (57,000), and Haitians (46,000).The Trump administration has announced that it will not extend TPS for immigrants from Sudan, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Haiti, Nepal, and Honduras when those designations expire. As a result, 98 percent of grantees could lose permission to work and protection from deportation—with the Haitian designation originally set to end on July 22, 2019; the Salvadoran one on September 9, 2019; and for Honduras on January 5, 2020.However, there have been several legal challenges, including one (Ramos v. Nielsen) that resulted in a preliminary injunction barring termination of the Sudan, Nicaragua, Haiti, and El Salvador designations. The nationals of these four countries will receive automatic extension of TPS and work permits as long as the injunction remains in place.How many unaccompanied children and families have been apprehended at the U.S.-Mexico border?Apprehensions at the Southwest border grew significantly in the first five months of FY 2019, due to the increase in families seeking asylum. Between October 2018 and February 2019, the most recent period for which data are available, the U.S. Border Patrol apprehended more than 136,000 minor children and adults travelling as family units and about 27,000 unaccompanied children along the Southwest border. This represents a significant uptick over the 107,200 family units and 50,000 unaccompanied children apprehended in all of FY 2018. These children and families are primarily from Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador.Note: The term “family unit” refers to individuals—either a child under 18 years old, parent, or legal guardian—apprehended with a family member by the U.S. Border Patrol.Note: The government fiscal year runs from October 1 to September 30. All figures for immigration control and enforcement given here are for the fiscal year. The data presented here are the most recent offered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).How many apprehensions of unauthorized immigrants occur at the border annually?CBP reported a total of 404,142 apprehensions at both southern and northern borders in 2018, a significant increase from 310,531 in 2017, and closer to the 415,816 apprehensions in 2016. Ninety-eight percent of Border Patrol apprehensions in 2018 occurred along the Southwest border. While apprehensions were up in 2018, they remained a small share of the 1.6 million that occurred during the peak year of 2000.Note: Apprehensions are events, not individuals. In other words, the same individual can be apprehended more than once, with each apprehension counted separately.How many people are arrested by ICE within the United States yearly?ICE made 158,581 administrative arrests in 2018, up 11 percent from a year earlier. An administrative arrest is the arrest of an individual for a civil violation of U.S. immigration law, which is subsequently adjudicated by an immigration judge or through other administrative processes.How many people are deported per year?Removals and returns result in the confirmed movement of inadmissible or deportable aliens out of the United States. Both ICE and CBP conduct removals and returns. There were 256,085 removals and returns carried out by ICE in 2018, an increase of 13 percent from 2017. Data do not appear to be publicly available on the number of removals and returns conducted by CBP for 2017 or 2018.How many immigrants are naturalized citizens?In 2017, 22 million immigrants were naturalized U.S. citizens, accounting for 49 percent of the total foreign-born population (44.5 million) and almost 7 percent of the U.S. population (325.7 million), according to ACS estimates.Of the 22 million naturalized citizens, 27 percent were naturalized between 2010 and 2017, 31 percent between 2000 and 2009, and 42 percent prior to 2000.How many immigrants become U.S. citizens annually?USCIS naturalized 707,000 LPRs in 2017. The total number of immigrants receiving U.S. citizenship decreased by 6 percent from 753,000 in 2016, even though the number of petitions filed increased from 972,000 in 2016 to 987,000 in 2017. The decrease in naturalizations granted is a combination of factors including longer processing time due to higher demand (8.1 months in 2017) and applications denials (83,000 in 2017).From a historical perspective, naturalizations have increased dramatically in recent decades. On average, fewer than 120,000 LPRs became citizens each year between 1950 and 1969, 210,000 in the 1980s, 500,000 in the 1990s, and 680,000 during the 2000s.Naturalizations reached an all-time high in 2008, increasing 59 percent from 660,000 in 2007 to 1,047,000 in 2008. This came as a result of impending application fee increases and the promotion of U.S. citizenship in advance of the 2008 presidential elections. Between 2010 and 2017, the average annual number of naturalizations was about 712,000.How many foreign nationals become U.S. citizens through military naturalization?In 2017, 6,900 foreign-born military personnel naturalized as U.S. citizens—a 23 percent drop from 2016 when 8,900 military personnel became Americans. Since 2002, 118,100 foreign-born military personnel naturalized on U.S. soil. Another 11,500 became citizens overseas or aboard Navy ships.Where are newly naturalized citizens from?Of those who naturalized in 2017, 17 percent were born in Mexico (119,000), roughly 7 percent in India (51,002), and 5 percent each in China (38,000) and the Philippines (37,000). Immigrants from these four countries, together with those from the Dominican Republic (30,000), Cuba (26,000), Vietnam (19,000), El Salvador (17,000), Colombia (16,000), and Jamaica (15,000), comprised the top ten countries of birth for newly naturalized citizens in 2017. These ten countries accounted for 52 percent of the 707,000 new U.S. citizens that fiscal year.Table 5. Top Ten Countries of Origin of Newly Naturalized Citizens, 2017Source: DHS Office of Immigration Statistics, Yearbook of Immigration Statistics 2017.Where do newly naturalized citizens live in the United States?In 2017, 57 percent of the newly naturalized lived in one of five states. California had the largest number of newly naturalized citizens, with 22 percent (157,000), followed by 12 percent in New York (86,000), 10 percent in Florida (70,000), 7 percent in Texas (51,000), and 6 percent in New Jersey (39,000).The top five metropolitan areas with the largest number of naturalizations were New York-Newark-Jersey City (113,000), Los Angeles-Long Beach (59,000), Miami-Ft Lauderdale-West Palm Beach (45,000), Washington-Arlington-Alexandria (30,000), and Chicago-Naperville (23,000). These five metropolitan areas accounted for over a third (38 percent) of all naturalizations in FY 2017.How many green-card holders are eligible to naturalize?According to the latest available DHS estimates, about 8.9 million of the 13.2 million green-card holders residing in the United States on January 1, 2014 were eligible to naturalize.How long does it take on average for green-card holders to naturalize?On average, immigrants held green cards for eight years before becoming U.S. citizens in 2017—an average year longer than green-card holders in 2016. The time varied by country of origin: African- and Asian-born immigrants spent an average six years in LPR status before naturalization, followed by those born in South America (eight years), Europe (nine years), Oceania (ten years), and North America (including Central America, eleven years).In general, naturalization requires being at least 18 years of age, passing English and civic exams, and for most, residing in the United States with LPR status continuously for at least five years (three years for those married to a U.S. citizen).How many visa applications for permanent immigration (green cards) are backlogged?Notes on Visa BacklogsTwo types of backlogs impact the issuance of green cards.The first is due to visa availability (with caps established in 1990):The second type of backlog is due to processing delays of applicants' documents, which is related to government processing capacity as well as increased background and criminal checks.In February 2019, the U.S. government was still processing some family-sponsored visa applications dating to August 1995, and employment-related visa applications from August 2007.According to data on the petitions submitted to the State Department, there were about 3.8 million applicants (including spouses and minor children) who were on the waiting list as of November 1, 2018, the first time the backlog dropped in recent years.The overwhelming majority of backlogs were family-sponsored applicants (3.7 million, which includes the principal applicant and their immediate family members). About 121,000 were employment-sponsored applicants and their families.Of the overall 3.8 million applicants, 1.2 million were citizens of Mexico, followed by those from the Philippines (314,000), India (299,000), Vietnam and China (with 232,000 each). Family- and employment-based prospective immigrants who are waiting to adjust their status to lawful permanent resident from within the United States are not included in the State Department estimate.USCIS also publishes backlog statistics but only for petitions approved in one of the five employment-based categories. USCIS data show that close to 395,000 approved employment-based immigrant petitions were awaiting a priority date based on the May 2018 Department of State Visa Bulletin. The figure corresponds to the number of primary applicants covered by these petitions but excludes their dependents. To MPI knowledge, USCIS did not publish backlog statistics on other types of green card applications the agency adjudicates.In other words, the overall number of people waiting for a green card—within and outside of the United States—is likely to be larger than the 3.8 million reported by the State Department (as of November 2018) and 395,000 reported by USCIS (as of May 2018).Additional Data Resources:Jie Zong is an Associate Policy Analyst providing quantitative research support across MPI programs.Jeanne Batalova is a Senior Policy Analyst at MPI and Manager of the Migration Data Hub.Micayla Burrows is an intern with MPI's National Center on Immigrant Integration Policy.Use our interactive maps, with the latest available data, to learn where immigrant populations, by country or region of birth, live in the United States—at state, county, and metro levels. Interested in the top immigrant populations in your state or metro area? Check out our maps.Get StartedWant to learn more about immigrants to the United States from Mexico, India, Canada, or many other countries? Spotlights from MPI's online journal, the Migration Information Source, use the latest data to provide information on size, geographic distribution, and socioeconomic characteristics of particular immigrant groups, including English proficiency, educational and professional attainment, income and poverty, health coverage, and remittances.Browse NowWant the latest facts and data on immigrants in the United States? Search U.S. Census data on U.S. immigrants and the native born nationally and by state based on demographic, language and education, workforce, and income indicators.Get StartedSource@MigrationPolicy.org1400 16th St NW, Suite 300, Washington, DC 20036 | ph. 202-266-1940 | fax. 202-266-1900      Copyright © 2001-2019 Migration Policy Institute. All rights reserved. 1400 16th St NW, Suite 300, Washington, DC 20036  ph. 202-266-1940 | fax. 202-266-1900      Copyright © 2001-2019 Migration Policy Institute. All rights reserved.White HouseSenior White House aides met Sunday afternoon to discuss how to roll out the controversial move affecting hundreds of thousands of Dreamers.By ELIANA JOHNSON09/03/2017 08:21 PM EDTUpdated 09/04/2017 12:40 AM EDTSerafina Ha (right) of Chicago embraces Becky Belcore of the National Korean American Service and Education Consortium during a demonstration in favor of immigration reform in front of the White House on Aug. 30. | Chip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesPresident Donald Trump has decided to end the Obama-era program that grants work permits to undocumented immigrants who arrived in the country as children, according to two sources familiar with his thinking. Senior White House aides huddled Sunday afternoon to discuss the rollout of a decision likely to ignite a political firestorm — and fulfill one of the president’s core campaign promises.The administration’s deliberations on the issue have been fluid and fast moving, and the president has faced strong warnings from members of his own party not to scrap the program. Story Continued BelowTrump has wrestled for months with whether to do away with the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, known as DACA. But conversations with Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who argued that Congress — rather than the executive branch — is responsible for writing immigration law, helped persuade the president to terminate the program and kick the issue to Congress, the two sources said. In a nod to reservations held by many lawmakers, the White House plans to delay the enforcement of the president’s decision for six months, giving Congress a window to act, according to one White House official. But a senior White House aide said that chief of staff John Kelly, who has been running the West Wing policy process on the issue, “thinks Congress should’ve gotten its act together a lot longer ago.”By MICHAEL GRUNWALDWhite House aides caution that — as with everything in the Trump White House — nothing is set in stone until an official announcement has been made. Trump is expected to formally make that announcement on Tuesday, and the White House informed House Speaker Paul Ryan of the president’s decision on Sunday morning, according to a source close to the administration. Ryan had said during a radio interview on Friday that he didn’t think the president should terminate DACA, and that Congress should act on the issue.  A spokesman for Ryan did not immediately respond to a request for comment. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement, “A decision is not finalized. We will make an announcement on Tuesday.”The president’s expected decision is likely to shore up his base, which rallied behind his broader campaign message about the importance of enforcing the country’s immigration laws and securing the border. At the same time, the president’s decision is likely to be one of the most contentious of his early administration, opposed by leaders of both parties and by the political establishment more broadly.Sign up today to receive the #1-rated newsletter in politicsBy signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. The White House and Congress have tried to pass the issue off on each other – with each arguing that the other is responsible for determining the fate of the approximately 800,000 undocumented immigrants who are benefiting from DACA. Though most Republicans believe that rolling back DACA is a solid legal decision, they are conscious of the difficult emotional terrain. Utah Sen. Orrin Hatch joined Ryan in cautioning Trump against rolling back the program.The president is likely to couch his decision in legalese. Many on the right, even those who support protections for children brought into the country illegally through no fault of their own, argue that DACA is unconstitutional because former President Barack Obama carried it out unilaterally instead of working through Congress. Some Republican lawmakers, including Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, have said that Congress needs to pass a law to protect the so-called Dreamers. “My hope is that as part of this process we can work on a way to deal with this issue and solve it through legislation, which is the right way to do it and the constitutional way to do it,” Rubio told CNN in June.By MATTHEW NUSSBAUMTrump’s expected decision to scrap DACA within six months represents another challenge for Ryan and fellow congressional Republicans, who are facing an end-of-September deadline to avert a government shutdown and government debt default, while also tackling a Hurricane Harvey relief package and a major tax reform push.It’s not clear that Congress will be able to come to an agreement on the future of DACA.Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa), who previously said he was very disappointed by Trump’s lack of action on DACA, expressed fresh frustration on Sunday night with the idea of a delayed implementation.“Ending DACA now gives chance 2 restore Rule of Law. Delaying so R Leadership can push Amnesty is Republican suicide,” King tweeted.Meanwhile, Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.), who has called on Trump to stand up for the Dreamers, tweeted out her displeasure with Trump’s expected announcement.“After teasing #Dreamers for months with talk of his 'great heart,' @POTUS slams door on them. Some 'heart'...” she wrote.Missing out on the latest scoops? Sign up for POLITICO Playbook and get the latest news, every morning — in your inbox.By Rich LowryBy Jack ShaferBy Rikha Sharma RaniBy Carrie Cordero and Garrett M. Graff © 2019 POLITICO LLCWe use cookies and other tracking technologies to improve your browsing experience on our site, show personalized content and targeted ads, analyze site traffic, and understand where our audience is coming from. To find out more or to opt-out, please read our Cookie Policy. In addition, please read our Privacy Policy, which has also been updated and became effective May 23rd, 2018.By choosing I Accept, you consent to our use of cookies and other tracking technologies.Congress this week failed to come up with a solution to protect undocumented people who have been shielded from deportation under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. The program is now set to end on March 5, six months after US Attorney Jeff Sessions announced that the Trump administration planned to phase out DACA, which has protected as many as 800,000 undocumented people.The failure to protect these people would be a tragedy, because the program has changed many, many lives for the better, as my research and that of others has shown. It took them out of limbo and let them contribute to their families, communities, and the US economy.When the Obama administration launched DACA in 2012, it amounted to a natural experiment: What would happen if you gave a portion of the overall population of undocumented immigrants fresh access to employment and other opportunities?Immigrants who applied for protection under the program — enrollment is not automatic — were at least temporarily shielded from deportation. They also got temporary Social Security numbers and two-year work permits. To qualify, they had to have arrived in the US before 2007 (at 15 years old, or younger), been 30 or younger in 2012, and either have a high-school degree or be enrolled in high school or similar educational program.When the program began, I started a national research project to study the effects on its beneficiaries. Those effects were profound: Under DACA, beneficiaries saw increased educational attainment, higher social mobility, and better mental health.My research into undocumented immigrants predates DACA. From 2002 to 2015, I followed 150 undocumented young adults in Los Angeles, examining how they transitioned to adulthood in a context of limited rights. In Lives in Limbo: Undocumented and Coming of Age in America, I compared a group of people who attended college with a group that had left school at or before high school graduation.Pre-DACA, even those young adults who had attained advanced degrees found their work and life outcomes limited — and unusually similar to those of less-educated peers. Lacking Social Security numbers, driver’s licenses, and other credentials, college graduates found they had little choice but to enter the informal, low-wage labor market.In 2011, I sat across an auto assembly plant lunchroom table from Jonathan, who had not graduated from high school, and Ricardo, who had two postsecondary degrees. If Ricardo had been a citizen, he would have had his choice of attractive job possibilities, but both, now in their late twenties, faced the same limited work options.Many people I interviewed described chronic headaches, toothaches, ulcers, difficulty sleeping problems, eating disorders, and thoughts of suicide. They had grown up in communities around Los Angeles and (as a result of the 1982 Supreme Court decision Plyler v. Doe, which opened the door to a K-12 education) they had attended school alongside American-born and citizen peers.But at a critical stage in their lives, their immigration status blocked important rites of passage — they couldn’t get getting driver’s licenses, after-school jobs, or financial aid for college. (Many colleges would allow them to enroll, but they were disqualified from federal financial aid.)Life in the shadows enacts a heavy toll. In my book, using a term from sociology, I argued that illegality was a “master status”: a binding constraint that overwhelmed all other traits and achievements. It acted as a lead weight that eventually dragged them down.The undocumented young adults in my study were the embodiment of Langston Hughes’s “dream deferred.”But with DACA, things changed for many of these same people. In 2013, my research team surveyed nearly 2,700 DACA-eligible young adults. Moreover, beginning in 2015, we carried out two waves of in-depth, in-person interviews with 481 DACA beneficiaries in six states: Arizona, California, Georgia, Illinois, New York, and South Carolina.Just 16 months into the program, 59 percent of respondents reported having found a new job. Over one-fifth of the people we surveyed had obtained a paid internship.Undocumented immigrants aren’t forbidden from having credit cards or bank accounts, but having a Social Security number makes getting these financial tools a lot easier. Almost one-half of our survey respondents opened up their first bank account after receiving DACA, and a third acquired their first credit card. Close to 60 percent of our respondents had obtained a driver’s license.Twenty-one percent of those we surveyed reported that their access to health care had improved, sometimes because they had access to health plans provided by schools or employers.DACA’s benefits appear to be greatest for people with degrees from four-year colleges. They were more than 1.5 times as likely to obtain new jobs and increase their earnings than DACA beneficiaries who never went to college. It seems they were finally able to make full use of their credentials and networks.Our findings are now a couple of years old, but they have been corroborated. Six months ago, the political scientist Tom K. Wong, of UC San Diego, released results from a similar survey of DACA beneficiaries that found that 69 percent of respondents reported moving to a job with better pay. More than half moved to a job that they thought better fit their education and training, or offered better working conditions.Much of the political and media coverage of this group has focused on the academically gifted, but, in terms of distance traveled, DACA’s biggest success stories involve moderate achievers. Most undocumented immigrant youth end their schooling before entering college. (In fact, more than 40 percent fail to complete high school.)Many of our respondents reported that DACA led them enroll in community college or in jobs-training programs sponsored by community-based organizations. DACA beneficiaries who completed certificate or licensing programs — in fields like nursing, dentistry, construction, and cosmetology — experienced significant growth in salary. Sixty-eight percent who did so told us their hourly salaries increased from the $5-to-$8 range to more than $14 an hour.Less tangible, but equally important, is DACA’s positive role in improving the mental health and general well-being of its beneficiaries. More than two-thirds of recipients told us they were less afraid of law enforcement and of being deported. (Fifty-nine percent of our respondents say they would report a crime now in a situation when they wouldn’t before.)Being able to get a driver’s license or to obtain lawful employment is about more than transportation and work: It’s about not having to always look over your shoulder. Nearly 70 percent indicated that they feel less stress in general.Eighteen-year-old Carolina, who is from Illinois, told us, “My freshman and sophomore year, I did really bad [in school], mostly because I was just not motivated because … all of this is going to be worthless in the end.” With DACA, her mindset changed: “OK, I actually have a chance,” she said.Failing to replace DACA would also have negative consequences for the schools, hospitals, tech firms, courts, and community organizations for which this population is now able to work. There are now thousands of “DACAmented” teachers in US schools.While not a perfect policy — only a pathway to citizenship would offer that — DACA has provided a significant boost to a large number of young people. The research is clear that DACA beneficiaries have made truly impressive economic and educational gains.Our elected officials still have a chance to correct the mistake of ending this important program. Failing to do so would hurt the lives of thousands of people in cruel fashion and to no purpose. It would be a stain on the soul of our nation.Roberto G. Gonzales is professor of education at Harvard University and author of Lives in Limbo: Undocumented and Coming of Age in America.The Big Idea is Vox’s home for smart discussion of the most important issues and ideas in politics, science, and culture — typically by outside contributors. If you have an idea for a piece, pitch us at thebigidea@vox.comTerms of Use/Privacy Policy© 2019 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights ReservedPresident Donald Trump signed an executive order directing theDepartment of Homeland Security (DHS) to deport most illegalimmigrants who encounter law enforcement, and Attorney General JeffSessions is attempting to withhold federal funds from local policedepartments that do not cooperate with DHS in thateffort.1 Underlying both actions is the beliefthat illegal immigrants are a significant source ofcrime.2 This brief uses Texas Department ofPublic Safety data to measure the conviction and arrest rates ofillegal immigrants by crime. In Texas in 2015, the criminalconviction and arrest rates for immigrants were well below those ofnative-born Americans. Moreover, the conviction and arrest ratesfor illegal immigrants were lower than those for native-bornAmericans. This result holds for most crimes.The vast majority of research finds that immigrants do notincrease local crime rates and that they are less likely to causecrime and less likely to be incarcerated than their native-bornpeers.3 There is less research on illegalimmigrant criminality, but what research there is shows thatillegal immigrants have lower incarceration rates nationwide and inthe state of Texas relative to native-born Americans, although theyhave the same rates of re-arrest in Los Angeles County.4 Consistentwith those findings, immigration enforcement programs targetingillegal immigrant criminals have no effect on local crime rates,which indicates that they are about as crime prone as otherresidents.5Continue to full version This brief uses data from the Texas Department of Public Safety(DPS) obtained through a Public Information Act (PIA)request.6 The Texas DPS data separately show thenumber of convictions and arrests of illegal and legal immigrantsfor 44 and 46 different crimes, respectively, in the state of Texasby year from January 1, 2011, to November 15, 2017. This briefreports the conviction and arrest rates for each subpopulation ofnatives, illegal immigrants, legal immigrants, and all immigrantscombined. This allows for a comparison of conviction and arrestrates between these subpopulations. This brief additionallydisplays conviction and arrest rates by select crimes.Texas has these data because its law enforcement agenciescooperate with federal immigration enforcement authorities at theDepartment of Homeland Security (DHS) that check the biometrics ofarrestees in the state.7 The Texas DPS keeps the results of theseDHS checks that then allow a more direct look at immigrantcriminality by immigration status.8 The DPS data released by the PIArequest revealed slightly more arrests in 2015 than were reportedby another publicly available DPS report for the sameyear.9 The quality of the Texas DPS data isexcellent and, if it errs, it is likely to overcount theconvictions and arrests of illegal immigrants because it countsmore total arrests than another DPS source.This brief reports the conviction and arrest rates for 2015because that is the most recent year for which estimates areavailable for the sizes of the legal immigrant, native-born,and illegal immigrant populations residing in the state ofTexas.10 The numbers in this brief do notrepresent the total number of criminal immigrants in the state ofTexas in 2015, but merely the number of convictions and arrests ofillegal immigrants, legal immigrants, and natives. There were22,797,819 native-born Americans, 1,758,199 illegal immigrants, and2,913,096 legal immigrants living in Texas in 2015.11 In thatyear, natives made up about 83 percent of the Texas population,illegal immigrants about 6.4 percent of the population, and legalimmigrants about 10.6 percent. The conviction and arrest rates forthe entire period of January 1, 2011, through November 15, 2017,are nearly identical to those of 2015, so the choice of year makeslittle difference. The DPS data that this brief analyzes are forall arrests and convictions that occurred in the year 2015,regardless of the year in which the crime was actuallycommitted.Controlling for the size of the population is essential tocomparing relative conviction and arrest rates between groups.Thus, government agencies generally report the conviction rate asthe number of convictions per 100,000 members of that particulargroup.12 The three subgroups this brief analyzesare illegal immigrants, legal immigrants, and native-bornAmericans. It is important to note that the Texas DPS data reportthe number of convictions and arrests, not the number ofpeople actually convicted or arrested. For instance, if aTexas court convicts a single person of two different offenses orof the same offense twice, then the Texas DPS data will count thatas two convictions.Texas is an ideal state to study criminality by immigrationstatus for multiple reasons: the state of Texas borders Mexico; ithas a large illegal immigrant population; it is a politicallyconservative state governed by Republicans; in 2015 it did not havejurisdictions that limited its cooperation with federal immigrationenforcement; and it has a law and order reputation for severelyenforcing its criminal laws.Natives were convicted of 409,708 crimes, illegal immigrantswere convicted of 15,803 crimes, and legal immigrants wereconvicted of 17,785 crimes in Texas in 2015. Thus, there were 1,797criminal convictions of natives for every 100,000 natives, 899criminal convictions of illegal immigrants for every 100,000illegal immigrants, and 611 criminal convictions of legalimmigrants for every 100,000 legal immigrants (Figure 1). As apercentage of their respective populations, there were 50 percentfewer criminal convictions of illegal immigrants than ofnative-born Americans in Texas in 2015. The criminal convictionrate for legal immigrants was about 66 percent below thenative-born rate.Homicides supposedly committed by illegal immigrants garner themost public attention.13 On November 30, 2017, a San Franciscojury acquitted José Inés García Zárate, an illegal immigrant fromMexico previously deported five times, of murdering KateSteinle.14 Her tragic killing galvanized publicsupport for harsher immigration enforcement and the construction ofa border wall and provided anecdotal evidence for then-candidateTrump’s claim that illegal immigrants are responsible for a largenumber of crimes in the United States.15There were 785 total homicide convictions in Texas in 2015. Ofthose, native-born Americans were convicted of 709 homicides,illegal immigrants were convicted of 46 homicides, and legalimmigrants were convicted of 30 homicides. The homicide convictionrate for native-born Americans was 3.1 per 100,000, 2.6 per 100,000for illegal immigrants, and 1 per 100,000 for legal immigrants(Figure 2). In 2015, homicide conviction rates for illegal andlegal immigrants were 16 percent and 67 percent below those ofnatives, respectively.Illegal immigrants made up about 6.4 percent of the Texaspopulation in 2015 but only accounted for 5.9 percent of allhomicide convictions. Legal immigrants made up 10.6 percent of theTexas population but accounted for only 3.8 percent of homicideconvictions. Native-born Americans made up 83 percent of the Texaspopulation but accounted for 90.3 percent of all homicideconvictions (Figure 3).Commentators also disproportionately blame immigrants for sexassaults and sex offenses.16 This brief combines sexual assault andsexual offense into the criminal category of sex crimes. There were28.6 sex crime convictions of illegal immigrants per 100,000 in2015, about 7.9 percent fewer than for native-born Americans in thesame year (Figure 4). The sex crime conviction rate for legalimmigrants was 69 percent below that of natives. There were manyfewer sex crime convictions against immigrants, including illegalimmigrants, than against native-born Americans in Texas in2015.There were fewer larceny convictions of illegal immigrants andlegal immigrants than there were of natives in 2015. There were 267larceny convictions of natives per 100,000 while there were onlyabout 62 convictions against illegal immigrants and 74 againstlegal immigrants (Figure 5). The larceny conviction rate forillegal immigrants was 77 percent below that of natives. This isone of the few crimes where the criminal conviction rate of legalimmigrants is greater than it is for illegal immigrants.Some commentators argue that there is “immigrant privilege” inthe criminal justice system whereby immigrants face fewer criminalconvictions even though they are arrested for morecrimes.17 However, the arrest rate for illegalimmigrants is lower than for natives overall but higher for just ahandful of individual crimes-very similar to the conviction rate.Lower arrest rates for illegal immigrants overturns the “immigrantprivilege” hypothesis.In 2015, Texas police made 815,689 arrests of natives, 37,776arrests of illegal immigrants, and 20,323 arrests of legalimmigrants. For every 100,000 people in each subgroup, there were3,578 arrests of natives, 2,149 arrests of illegal immigrants, and698 arrests of legal immigrants (Table 1). The arrest rate forillegal immigrants was 40 percent below that of native-bornAmericans. The arrest rate for all immigrants and legal immigrantswas 65 percent and 81 percent below that of native-born Americans,respectively.Per 100,000 people in their respective groups, there were morearrests of natives for homicide, sex crimes, and larceny than therewere arrests of illegal immigrants.The homicide conviction rate for illegal immigrants was 16percent below that of native-born Americans in Texas in 2015. Theconviction rates for illegal immigrants were 7.9 percent and 77percent below that of native-born Americans for sex crimes andlarceny, respectively. For all criminal convictions in Texas in2015, illegal immigrants had a criminal conviction rate 50 percentbelow that of native-born Americans. Legal immigrants had acriminal conviction rate 66 percent below that of native-bornAmericans.1 “Executive Order: EnhancingPublic Safety in the Interior of the United States,” ExecutiveOrder of the President, January 25, 2017, https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/executive-order-enhancing-public-safety-interior-united-states/;and Maha Ahmed, “Jeff Sessions Gives In and Sends Federal Funds toSanctuary Cities,” Mother Jones, November 20, 2017.2 Lesley Stahl, “President-ElectTrump Speaks to a Divided Country on 60 Minutes,” CBSNews, November 13, 2016.3 See Daniel P. Mears, “TheImmigration-Crime Nexus: Toward an Analytic Framework for Assessingand Guiding Theory, Research, and Policy,” SociologicalPerspectives 44, no. 1 (Spring 2001): 1-19; Kristin F. Butcherand Anne Morrison Piehl, “The Role of Deportation in theIncarceration of Immigrants,” in Issues in the Economics ofImmigration, ed. George J. Borjas (Chicago: University ofChicago Press, 2000): 351-86; Kristin F. Butcher and Anne MorrisonPiehl, “Why Are Immigrants’ Incarceration Rates So Low? Evidence onSelective Immigration, Deterrence, and Deportation,” NBER WorkingPaper no. 13229, National Bureau of Economic Research, July 2007;Jacob I. Stowell et al., “Immigration and the Recent Violent CrimeDrop in the United States: A Pooled, Cross-Sectional Time-SeriesAnalysis of Metropolitan Areas,” Criminology 47, no. 3(2009): 889-928; Lesley Williams Reid et al., “TheImmigration-Crime Relationship: Evidence across U.S. MetropolitanAreas,” Social Science Research 34, no. 4 (2005): 757-80;Matthew T. Lee, Ramiro Martinez, and Richard Rosenfeld, “DoesImmigration Increase Homicide?,” Sociological Quarterly42, no. 4 (2001): 559-80; Butcher and Piehl, “The Role ofDeportation in the Incarceration of Immigrants”; Butcher and Piehl,“Why Are Immigrants’ Incarceration Rates So Low?”; Walter A. Ewing,Daniel E. Martinez, and Ruben G. Rumbaut, “The Criminalization ofImmigration in the United States,” American Immigration CouncilSpecial Report, July 2015; and Alex Nowrasteh, “Immigration andCrime-What the Research Says,” Cato at Liberty, July 14,2015, https://www.cato.org/blog/immigration-crime-what-research-says.4 Michelangelo Landgrave and AlexNowrasteh, “Criminal Immigrants: Their Numbers, Demographics, andCountries of Origin,” Cato Institute Immigration Research andPolicy Brief, no. 1, March 15, 2017, https://www.cato.org/publications/immigration-reform-bulletin/criminal-immigrants-their-numbers-demographics-countries;Nicole Cobler, “Less Than 5 Percent of Texas Prison Inmates AreUndocumented,” Texas Tribune, February 19, 2016; and LauraJ. Hickman and Marika J. Suttorp, “Are Deportable Aliens a UniqueThreat to Public Safety? Comparing the Recidivism of Deportable andNondeportable Aliens,” Criminology and Public Policy 7,no. 1 (2008): 59-82.5 Thomas J. Miles and Adam B.Cox, “Does Immigration Enforcement Reduce Crime? Evidence fromSecure Communities,” Journal of Law and Economics 57, no.4 (2014): 937-73; and Elina Treyger, Aaron Chalfin, and CharlesLoeffler, “Immigration Enforcement, Policing, and Crime,”Criminology & Public Policy 13, no. 2 (2014):285-322.6 “Public Information Act,” TexasDepartment of Public Safety, http://www.dps.texas.gov/pia.htm;and “Texas Criminal Alien Arrest Data,” Texas Department of PublicSafety,https://www.dps.texas.gov/administration/crime_records/pages/txCriminalAlienStatistics.htm.This information is available on email request made to AlexNowrasteh at anowrasteh [at] cato.org.7 ICE News Releases, “ICE ‘SecureCommunities’ Program Now Activated in All Texas Counties,”September 29, 2010,https://www.ice.gov/news/releases/ice-secure-communities-program-now-activated-all-texas-counties;and “Texas Criminal Alien Arrest Data,” Texas Department of PublicSafety,https://www.dps.texas.gov/administration/crime_records/pages/txCriminalAlienStatistics.htm.8 Michelangelo Landgrave and AlexNowrasteh, “Criminal Immigrants: Their Numbers, Demographics, andCountries of Origin.”9 Texas Department of PublicSafety, “Crime in Texas: 2015,” Chapter 9, 2015, https://www.dps.texas.gov/administration/crime_records/pages/crimestatistics.htm.10 Center for Migration Studies,“State-Level Unauthorized Population and Eligible-to-NaturalizedEstimates,” Texas, 2015; and American Community Survey, “SelectedCharacteristics of the Native and Foreign-Born Populations,” TableS0501 1-Year Estimates, 2015.11 Center for Migration Studies,“State-Level Unauthorized Population and Eligible-to-NaturalizedEstimates,” Texas, 2015; and American Community Survey, “SelectedCharacteristics of the Native and Foreign-Born Populations,” TableS0501 1-Year Estimates, 2015.12 Bureau of Justice Statistics,“Crime and Justice in the United States and in England and Wales,1981-1996,” https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/html/cjusew96/cpp.cfm.13 John Wildermuth and RachelSwan, “Conservatives Let SF Have It over Verdict in Kate SteinleCase,” San Francisco Chronicle, November 30, 2017.14 Vivian Ho, “Kate SteinleTrial: García Zárate Acquitted in San Francisco Pier Killing,”San Francisco Chronicle, December 1, 2017.15 Donald J. Trump, “Transcript:Donald Trump’s Full Immigration Speech, Annotated,” Los AngelesTimes, August 31, 2017,http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-pol-donald-trump-immigration-speech-transcript-20160831-snap-htmlstory.html.16 Ann Coulter, ¡Adios,America! (Washington, D.C.: Regnery Publishing, 2015); and AnnCoulter, “ ‘Immigrant Privilege’ Drives Child Rape Epidemic,”Townhall, March 8, 2017.17 Ann Coulter, “ ‘ImmigrantPrivilege’ Drives Child Rape Epidemic,” Townhall, March 8,2017.This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.Daily dose of liberty delivered straight to your inbox.View full list of newslettersCato Institute1000 Massachusetts Ave, NWWashington, DC 20001-5403Privacy PolicyContact UsMedia ContactYour privacy is important to us. We have updated our privacy policy to better explain how we use data on this site. Read it here— Antonio Villaraigosa on Monday, July 31st, 2017 in an interview on MSNBCByChris Nicholson Thursday, August 3rd, 2017 at 4:04 p.m.Candidate for California governor Antonio Villaraigosa jumped into the nation’s heated debate on immigration reform during a recent interview on MSNBC.The Democrat and former Los Angeles mayor rejected the idea that deporting undocumented immigrants was a sound strategy for reducing crime.His statement followed President Trump’s speech about combatting MS-13 gang members. The gang started in poor Los Angeles neighborhoods where many refugees from civil wars in El Salvador, Guatemala and Nicaragua lived in the 1980s. It’s grown into an international criminal organization with more than 30,000.Trump campaigned on the promise to deport millions of undocumented residents, often describing them as threats to public safety.Here’s what Villaraigosa said on July 31, 2017 on MSNBC."I think we all agree that people that commit violent crimes ought to be deported. But going after the undocumented is not a crime strategy, when you look at the fact that the National Academy of Sciences in, I think it was November of 2015, the undocumented immigrants commit less crimes than the native born. That’s just a fact."Watch the interview here. We decided to examine this last point as part of our Tracking The Truth series, which fact-checks claims in the 2018 California governor's race.We interpreted Villaraigosa’s statement to mean undocumented people commit crimes at a lower rate than the native born.But we wondered whether this was really a settled matter.We set out on a fact check.Our researchWe started by checking out the 2015 National Academy of Sciences study Villaraigosa cited. It found: "Immigrants are in fact much less likely to commit crime than natives, and the presence of large numbers of immigrants seems to lower crime rates." The study added that "This disparity also holds for young men most likely to be undocumented immigrants: Mexican, Salvadoran, and Guatemalan men."It continued: "Today, the belief that immigrants are more likely to commit crimes is perpetuated by ‘issue entrepreneurs’ who promote the immigrant-crime connection in order to drive restrictionist immigration policy."The academy is a nonprofit research organization charged with providing independent advice to the nation. It is funded largely by the federal government.Findings in a March 2017 study by the libertarian Cato Institute also support Villaraigosa's statement:"Illegal immigrants are 44 percent less likely to be incarcerated than natives. Legal immigrants are 69 percent less likely to be incarcerated than natives. Legal and illegal immigrants are underrepresented in the incarcerated population while natives are overrepresented."The Cato study used information from the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey for immigrants aged 18 to 54 who are incarcerated in the United States. To examine Villaraigosa's claim, we also relied on research into similar claims by our partner national PolitiFact. In July 2016, it rated Mostly True a statement by Libertarian candidate for president Gary Johnson that Mexican immigrants "are more law-abiding than U.S. citizens and that is a statistic."PolitiFact found several studies that back up this claim by citing incarceration rates. It also found groups that challenged those studies or said more research is needed.PolitiFact’s findingsPolitiFact pointed to a July 2015 report by the American Immigration Council, a pro-immigrant nonprofit in Washington. The council analyzed data from the Census’ 2010 American Community Survey and found that about 1.6 percent of all immigrant males (Census does not specify legal status) between 18 and 39 years old were incarcerated, compared to 3.3 percent of the native-born population.Looking at California prisons, immigrants are also underrepresented. U.S.-born men are incarcerated in the state at a rate of more than two-and-a-half times greater than that of foreign-born men, according to a study by the Public Policy Institute of California.The American Immigration Council also reported that 2010 Census data shows incarceration rates of young, less educated Mexican, Salvadoran and Guatemalan men — which comprise the bulk of the unauthorized population — are "significantly lower" than incarceration rates of native-born young men without a high-school diploma.Specifically for Mexican men ages 18 to 39, the incarceration rate in 2010 was 2.8 percent, compared to 10.7 percent for native-born men in the same age group, the council’s report said.Immigrants come to the United States to build better lives for themselves and their children, said Walter A. Ewing, a senior researcher at the American Immigration Council and one of the report’s authors."They are very motivated to not blow that opportunity by getting in trouble with the police," he told PolitiFact. "This is especially so for unauthorized immigrants, who can be deported at any time for unlawful presence."Crime trendsPolitiFact also noted that as the immigrant population has increased, crime has gone down, citing Ewing’s report.Between 1990 and 2013, the foreign-born share of the U.S. population increased from 7.9 percent to 13.1 percent, and the number of unauthorized immigrants went up from 3.5 million to 11.2 million. At the same time, the violent crime rate (murder, rape and aggravated assault) decreased 48 percent and property crime rate fell 41 percent, the report said, citing FBI data.Bianca E. Bersani, an assistant professor and director of the Criminology and Criminal Justice Program at the University of Massachusetts in Boston, says her research also shows that crime involvement among foreign-born residents is lower than that of U.S.-born citizens."The rhetoric of the ‘criminal immigrant’ does not align with the bulk of empirical research," Bersani said.According to Bersani’s research, while first-generation immigrants are less likely to commit crimes than the native-born population, the second generation (individuals born in the United States to at least one foreign-born parent) more closely resemble patterns of their native-born peers (three or more U.S.-born generations)."This does not suggest that the second generation is uniquely crime prone, but instead that they are acting in ways that are no different from the rest of the U.S.-born population," Bersani said.Datasets with information on both crime and immigrant status are rare, Bersani said, though more research and data are becoming available.More research needed?The Center for Immigration Studies, which supports stricter immigration policies, in a 2009 study said that overall understanding of immigrants and crime "remains confused" due to lack of data and contrary information.Unless inmates are identified as immigrant or native-born, incarceration rates are a poor way to measure links between immigrants and crime, the study said.As PolitiFact reported in 2015, there isn’t exact data on how many undocumented immigrants are currently incarcerated.PolitiFact California spoke about this critique with Ewing of the American Immigration Council, whose research supports Villaraigosa’s claim. He said he’s confident in the work that’s been done and said critics have used anecdotes, rather than full-blown research, to try to make their points.Ewing added that the studies backing up Villaraigosa’s statement are "from such a wide range of researchers using so many different methodologies and sources of data -- not everyone can be wrong."Our rulingVillaraigosa said "undocumented immigrants commit less crimes than the native born."He cited a 2015 study by the National Academy of Sciences that backs up this claim.In a fact check last year, PolitiFact rated a similar claim Mostly True. It cited additional studies by scholars and partisan groups that show that the foreign-born population is less likely to commit crimes than the native-born.It also found that researchers agree more data is needed to get a better understanding of immigration and crime. It said this was a needed clarification.PolitiFact California agrees with these findings.We rated Villaraigosa’s claim Mostly True.MOSTLY TRUE – The statement is accurate but needs clarification or additional information.Click here for more on the six PolitiFact ratings and how we select facts to check.UPDATE: We have added information to the ‘Our research’ section of this fact check from a March 2017 study by the libertarian Cato Institute. The study’s findings provide additional evidence backing up Villaraigosa’s claim that undocumented immigrants are less likely to commit crimes than the native born.PolitiFact California is fact-checking claims in the 2018 California governor's race through our Tracking The Truth series. Hear a claim you want fact-checked? Email us at [email protected], tweet us @CAPolitiFact or contact us on Facebook.Published: Thursday, August 3rd, 2017 at 4:04 p.m.Researched by: Eli Flesch, Chris NicholsEdited by: Gregory FavreSubjects: Corrections and Updates, Crime, Immigration, The 2018 California Governor's RaceAntonio Villaraigosa, interview on MSNBC, July 31, 2017Michelle Yeung, campaign spokeswoman for Antonio Villaraigosa, interview Aug. 2, 2017Walter A. Ewing, a senior researcher at the American Immigration Council, interview, Aug. 3, 2017Cato Institute, "Criminal Immigrants: Their Numbers, Demographics, and Countries of Origin," March 15, 2017Center for Immigration Studies, "Immigration and Crime: Assessing a Conflicted Issue," November 2009The Pew Research Center: "Crime rises among second-generation immigrants as they assimilate," October 15, 2013The New York Times, "Contrary to Trump’s Claims, Immigrants Are Less Likely to Commit Crimes," January 26, 2017National Bureau of Economic Research, "Why are immigrants’ incarceration rates so low? Evidence on selective immigration, deterrence, and deportation," July 2007The Hill, "DOJ releases data on incarceration rates of illegal immigrants," May 2, 2017The Los Angeles Times, "Immigrants don't commit more crimes. Why does the myth persist?" September 6, 2016PolitiFact, "Libertarian candidate says Mexican immigrants more law-abiding than U.S. citizens," July 14, 2016.PolitiFact, "Trump immigration claim has no data to back it up," July 6, 2015National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, "The Integration of Immigrants into American Society," 2015We want to hear your suggestions and comments. Email PolitiFact California with feedback and with claims you'd like to see checked. Or tweet us at @CAPolitiFact. To submit a fact-check suggestion, you can also fill out this form. If you send us a comment, we'll assume you don't mind us publishing it unless you tell us otherwise.Remember me·Forgot password?Get instant updates from your friends, industry experts, favorite celebrities, and what's happening around the world.What is Twitter? Learn more.Remember me·Forgot password?Get instant updates from your friends, industry experts, favorite celebrities, and what's happening around the world.What is Twitter? Learn more.We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter?Yes45th President of the United States of AmericaYou can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history.Learn moreHere's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends.Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn moreAdd this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn moreHmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again?By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy.This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you.Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account.When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love.The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly.Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in.Get instant insight into what people are talking about now.Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about.See the latest conversations about any topic instantly.Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.Border Patrol Officer killed at Southern Border, another badly hurt. We will seek out and bring to justice those responsible. We will, and must, build the Wall!THE President Donald Trump Accomplishment List Website#AmericaFirsthttp://www.magapill.com Q Clearance Patriot: The Storm and The Awakening#MAGA #QAnonhttp://www.magapill.com/q-clearance-patriot-the-storm-and-the-awakening/ …193 out of 198 MS-13 Gang Members just arrested in Operation 'Raging Bull' were Illegal Aliens...#MAGA #AmericaFirsthttp://www.magapill.com/193-illegal-alien-gang-members-arrested/ …'ISIS 95% Eradicated' under President Trump's Leadership.#MAGAhttp://www.magapill.com/isis-95-eradicated-under-trump-admin/ …China Folds to Trump's #AmericaFirst Agenda#MAGAhttp://www.magapill.com/china-folds-to-trumps-america-first-demands/ …Melania Trump does it better than Michelle ObamaWe love our @FLOTUS#MAGAhttp://www.magapill.com/melania-trump-does-it-better-than-michelle-obama/ …You pay for it, then.That sounds like the world’s lamest bumper stickerSays the anti science anti public education Trump troll.To be fair, both sides do it more than they shouldIt hard to be nice when conservative support policies that hurt the middle class and poor and help the struggling 1% all to please their donors.Back to top ↑Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.All market data delayed 20 minutes.FNC's Griff Jenkins provides the latest details.Illegal immigrants appeared to have “ambushed” two U.S. Border Patrol agents near the Texas border with Mexico and bashed their heads with blunt objects -- possibly rocks -- killing one agent and sending another to a hospital in serious condition Sunday, a National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) official told Fox News.Rogelio Martinez, 36, was killed and another agent, who has not been identified, was injured while they were patrolling the Big Bend Sector, leading authorities to scour West Texas for the attackers, officials said. Although few details about the incident have been released, Brandon Judd, the president of the NBPC, told Fox News on Monday it appeared Martinez and the second agent were “ambushed” by a group of illegal immigrants.“We don’t know exactly what happened because we weren’t there. However, just from agents that were working in the area, reports are saying it was an attack and it would appear to be an ambush,” Judd said.He added: “There’s a high likelihood this was an assault on the agents.”Rogelio Martinez, 36, was killed while patrolling the Big Bend Sector in Texas.(Facebook)Texas Gov. Greg Abbott has offered a reward of up to $20,000 "for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the person or persons responsible" for the attack.Martinez and his partner suffered traumatic injuries to the head and other injuries such as broken bones, FBI El paso said in a news release. Judd earlier told Fox News Martinez died of blunt force trauma to the head, indicating the attackers most likely used a rock or rocks during the assault on the two agents. The area surrounding where the attack occurred also indicated rocks were likely used as weapons. An FBI official also said that, counter to initial reports, neither agent was shot.“There were no indications the agents fired their weapons,” Judd said, citing accounts he received from agents who responded to the incident. He also said there were no signs of a stabbing.Martinez was notified there was illegal immigrant traffic in the area while the agents were patrolling near Interstate 10, in the Van Horn Station area, according to Judd. He began following “footprints” on a trail when the attack occurred. U.S. Customs and Border Protection said in a news release that Martinez&aposs partner made the initial call for help and reported they were injured and needed assistance.“There’s a high likelihood this was an assault on the agents.”Judd said details remained foggy on what led to the ambush and the FBI was investigating the incident.Judd did not further comment on the second agent’s condition.Martinez was from El Paso and had worked as a border agent since August 2013, assigned to the Big Bend Sector. He was also a father and brother, KFOX14 reported.Border Patrol records showed the agency&aposs Big Bend sector, which includes the area where Sunday&aposs attack took place, accounted for about 1 percent of the more than 61,000 apprehensions its agents made along the Southwest border between October 2016 and May 2017. The region&aposs mountains make it a difficult area for people to cross illegally into the U.S. from Mexico.The Border Patrol website lists 38 agents, not including Martinez, who have died since late 2003 — some attacked while working along the border and others killed in traffic accidents. Martinez is the second agent to have died this year.President Trump tweeted Sunday night: "Border Patrol Officer killed at Southern Border, another badly hurt. We will seek out and bring to justice those responsible. We will, and must, build the Wall!"The Associated Press contributed to this report. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.