AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — President Trump, facing a growing public backlash over the partial government shutdown, shifted course on Saturday and offered Democrats a deal: temporary protections for roughly 700,000 young undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a wall along the southern border.But the proposal, which Mr. Trump unveiled in a 13-minute address from the White House, appeared dead on arrival in the Capitol. Speaker Nancy Pelosi rejected it even before Mr. Trump spoke, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, denounced the offer as “not a compromise but more hostage taking.”With the shutdown entering its fifth week and polls showing a majority of the public blaming Mr. Trump, the president’s advisers have been searching for an exit strategy. Saturday’s speech grew out of talks that Vice President Mike Pence and the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, have had in recent days with lawmakers including Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader.The proposal was Mr. Trump’s first public offer to Democrats since the partial shutdown began nearly a month ago. It came after an acrimonious week of tit-for-tat politics, in which Ms. Pelosi told the president he could not deliver his State of the Union address in the Capitol until the shutdown was over, and the president retaliated by grounding a plane that was supposed to take Ms. Pelosi on a fact-finding mission to Afghanistan.In casting the plan as a compromise, the president sought to shift pressure to Democrats — who have repeatedly refused to give Mr. Trump any money for his border wall — to end the shutdown. But Democrats continued to insist they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump over border security until the government reopens.Over the course of his administration, Mr. Trump has repeatedly sought to curb both legal and illegal immigration. He has revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., which offers crucial protections for immigrants, for people from some Latin American and African countries. And he has moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, an Obama-era program that shielded the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation.In the deal he outlined on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore T.P.S. protection for 300,000 people, and said he would allow 700,000 Dreamers to keep their protections for three more years in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border barrier.“That is our plan,” Mr. Trump said. “Border security, DACA, T.P.S. Many other things. Straightforward, fair, reasonable and common sense with lots of compromise.” The proposal, Mr. Trump added, was intended to “break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward.”The speech was the second time during the shutdown that the president addressed the nation about the immigration crisis. But unlike his first address, a prime-time broadcast from the Oval Office that leaned heavily on dark messaging about the dangers of crime and illegal drugs flowing across the border, Mr. Trump seemed on Saturday to soften his tone.He paired the address with his first naturalization ceremony at the White House, a move intended to underscore the idea that he supports legal immigration. And his language was markedly different; instead of insisting on the “big beautiful wall” he promised during his 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump took care to use the word “barrier” as well — and seemed to pare back his vision for it.Calling the wall “a powerful and beautifully designed see-through steel barrier on our southern border,” Mr. Trump said: “This is not a 2,000-mile concrete structure from sea to sea. These are steel barriers in high priority locations. Much of the border is already protected by natural barriers such as mountains and water.”Mr. Trump noted that he had adopted some Democratic proposals on border security. The president proposed $800 million for humanitarian assistance and $805 million for drug detection technology, in addition to funding for 2,750 more border agents and law enforcement officials and 75 new immigration judge teams.In her talking points, issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosi said her party favored “new drug, weapons and contraband scanning technology at official ports of entry,” and “filling the more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers.” Ms. Pelosi also intends to bring up legislation in the coming days that includes an additional $1 billion for border security, including $563 million for 75 new immigration judges and support staff.Even so, Democrats roundly criticized the president’s plan. They were particularly incensed that Mr. Trump’s offer extended protections to Dreamers and T.P.S. recipients that he himself revoked. And they said the deal was a nonstarter because it did not offer any permanent protections for Dreamers.“I think it’s simply more fake promises raising false hopes,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said. “It will fool few Americans because it’s neither serious nor credible as a real remedy for Dreamers.”Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.Some on the right also pushed back, describing the proposal as amnesty. James Carafano, a national security expert at the Heritage Foundation who worked on Mr. Trump’s transition, was among the critics. “Amnesty encourages further illegal immigration, incentivizes the tragedy of human trafficking and undermines our citizens’ confidence in the rule of law,” he said.Mr. Pence, briefing reporters after Mr. Trump’s remarks, said the speech reflected a painstaking process of listening to lawmakers, including rank-and-file Democrats who made it clear they believed that protections for DACA and T.P.S. recipients must be included in a border security deal.And he pushed back forcefully against critics like Mr. Carafano who said the measure amounted to an unacceptable amnesty for undocumented immigrants.“There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal,” Mr. Pence said.But that was one reason many Democrats considered it unacceptable. Other senior administration officials made it clear that part of Mr. Trump’s strategy was to try to drive a wedge within the party between those who want to hold out for a much more generous solution and those who may feel enough political pressure to end the shutdown that they will feel obliged to support it.Noting that Tuesday is the deadline for the government to reopen in time to prevent federal employees from going a second consecutive pay period without a check, Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, said Senate Democrats had a tricky decision to make. He also noted that the president’s ability to declare a national emergency was “absolutely” still a tool available to Mr. Trump to find funds to build the wall if a legislative agreement could not be reached.Now it will be up to Mr. McConnell to put legislation incorporating Mr. Trump’s proposal on the Senate floor.Mr. McConnell — who has insisted he will not put any legislation on the floor unless the president will sign it — spoke to Mr. Trump, Mr. Kushner and Mr. Pence on Thursday night about finding a way forward.Mr. McConnell told the president that before he could bring up legislation on the Senate floor, he needed a “public reassurance” that Mr. Trump would sign it, one person close to the talks said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to describe sensitive discussions.The president’s proposal “strikes a fair compromise by incorporating priorities from both sides of the aisle,” Mr. McConnell said in a statement after Mr. Trump’s speech.If Mr. McConnell does indeed put a bill on the floor, as the president said he would, Senate Democrats will have to decide whether to block it or let it come up for a vote. Despite Democrats’ vow to reject the measure, it could create an opening for negotiations between the two sides.The shutdown stalemate is creating increasing nervousness on Capitol Hill, especially among Republicans seeking re-election in Democratic-leaning states. One of them, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, is among only a handful of Republicans who have broken with the president and called for the government to reopen without a border security deal.On Saturday, she praised the president, saying she hoped that Mr. Trump’s offer would “lead to constructive debate that will end this impasse.”White House aides and allies of Mr. Trump said Saturday that Mr. Trump succeeded in ratcheting up the political pressure on Ms. Pelosi, especially if the Senate succeeded in passing a bill.“The Democrats’ talking points have been that the president is solely responsible for shutting down the government,” Marc Short, the former White House legislative director, said. “This puts more onus on them to come back and say why this proposal is insufficient.”But one reason Democrats are so leery of the deal is that they have been down this road with the president before. Last year, Mr. Trump and Mr. Schumer negotiated $25 billion in wall money for a pathway to citizenship for the Dreamers. But that deal fell apart when hard-line White House advisers persuaded the president to back away.The standoff over the shutdown, some former aides noted, was the first time Mr. Trump has had to engage in meaningful, high-stakes negotiations. But even that has come as a last resort, in what some have likened to negotiating out of desperation after failing to score political points.Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHow Italy’s leaders are tapping resentments, old and new, over immigration, fine art and béchamel. By Ilaria Maria SalaMs. Sala is an Italian journalist.White sauce and migration, the fork and the Mona Lisa, a fast train and an African currency — the points of contention are many. Since coming to power eight months ago, the most unpredictable and quarrelsome government Italy has ever known has managed to pick a colossal fight with, yes, France.On Thursday, the French government called back for “consultations” its ambassador to Italy. Matteo Salvini and Luigi Di Maio, both deputy prime ministers of Italy, had said that they gave their full support to the Gilets Jaunes (Yellow Vests), who have been protesting throughout France for weeks, rattling the presidency of Emmanuel Macron. Then, after meeting representatives of the movement a few days ago, Mr. Di Maio declared that a “new Europe is being born.” The French foreign ministry called the statement yet more “provocation” and manipulation for “electoral aims.”Italy’s two-headed government — an opportunistic alliance between the extreme-right League of Mr. Salvini and the populist, anti-establishment Five Star Movement of Mr. Di Maio — has made a sport of going after France, especially Mr. Macron.Mr. Di Maio, in particular, has called out France’s supposedly neocolonialist relationship with its former territories in Africa, which supposedly impoverishes the continent and causes its people to flee — for Italy. On a popular TV talk show recently, Alessandro Di Battista, a prominent leader of the Five Star Movement and the group’s unofficial economic theorist, pulled out of his pocket a copy of a C.F.A. franc bank note. The C.F.A., which is used in 14 African states, is pegged to the euro and guaranteed by the French treasury against those states’ foreign reserves. Mr. Di Battista tore the bill apart angrily, blaming the currency for keeping Africa down and under France’s yoke.He didn’t mention Italy’s own adventures in Africa in the 19th and 20th centuries, when Italian troops are said to have raped, murdered and gassed civilians, bombed the Red Cross and starved children held in detention. (Those facts still hardly  feature on the history curriculum of Italian schools.) Nor did he mention that many asylum seekers who arrive in Italy today come from Somalia, Eritrea and Ethiopia — an area once colonized in parts by Italy.This flimsy anticolonial stance may be designed to give the Italian government a patina of idealism, but it reveals a muddled understanding of African political and economic dynamics. A new unit called “Task Force Cina”(Task Force China) has been set up in the Ministry of Economic Development, which is under Mr. Di Maio’s control: Its goal is to increase economic exchanges with China and stop migration to Italy by helping China invest in Africa. The Italian government calls France’s involvement in Africa exploitative but seems to think that China’s is no problem. This French-bashing is a new twist in an old story of resentment and rivalry — a medley of unprocessed feelings that can be triggered just as easily by talk of the Napoleonic invasions or the French soccer player Zinedine Zidane’s famous head-butt against an Italian player in the 2006 World Cup Final. Italy won the championship, but with a whiff of illegitimacy after Zidane was taken out of the game. For a long time, I think, some Italians have felt that our country’s contribution to French culture has gone unacknowledged. But now, in the hands of Mr. Salvini and Mr. Di Maio, this sentiment is reaching new heights, in terms of both political expedience and pettiness.The Louvre museum in Paris, where the Mona Lisa is exhibited, has been preparing to commemorate later this year the 500th anniversary of Leonardo da Vinci’s death. The painting became the property of Francis I, a king of France and Leonardo’s patron, after Leonardo’s death in France in the early 16th century — a time when the concept of Italy as a nation was shaky at best. Last year, Italy promised to contribute to the special exhibit by lending the Louvre major, sumptuous pieces, but the new government is mulling how to renege on that pledge.A popular myth has resurfaced on Twitter in these fractious days about how both haute cuisine and humble utensils were introduced to the French court by Catherine de Medici, after she was sent from Florence to Paris to marry Henry II in 1533. Search Twitter for “mangiavate ancora con le mani” (“You’d still be eating with your hands”) and see. Catherine made a rookie’s mistake: She fell in love with her husband even though he was besotted with another woman (Diane de Poitiers). When I was in high school (in Florence), my history teacher consistently referred to her as “la poverina” — the poor thing — for having been twice cheated by the French, out of her love and her culinary expertise.Food historians may have serious grounds to debate the exact parentage of béchamel and the fork, but many assumptions driving the current government’s revisionism are unquestionably wrong. Whatever Mr. Di Battista thinks of French monetary policies in Africa, for example, the highest number of African migrants to Italy come from Nigeria, a former British colony, and not from French-speaking countries.But a populist, right-wing government such as Italy’s today needs an enemy to rally its electorate, in particular at a time of deep economic difficulties. Better to redirect attention on immigration and the French than face up to high unemployment and overall stagnation: Italy formally entered a recession this quarter.Of course, Mr. Macron hasn’t helped matters by hardly behaving diplomatically himself. When Mr. Salvini, also Italy’s interior minister, announced that migrant boats would no longer be allowed to dock in Italian ports, the French president called the move “cynical and irresponsible.” This, even though France’s border with Italy has been closed to migrants and French authorities have been pushing them back into Italy. It is also undeniable that Europe’s southernmost countries like Italy bear a heavier share of the immigration crisis than other European states, partly because of the Dublin Regulation, a much-criticized European law that requires the countries where asylum seekers arrive to screen them and take care of them.And yet, when the European Parliament has discussed reforms aimed at spreading more evenly the burden of immigration among members of the European Union, the League did not participate, and representatives of the Five Star Movement abstained from voting. At a final session last June, the Dublin Regulation wasn’t amended, for lack of votes in favor of reform.Not all Italians are on board, of course. On Thursday, after France called back its ambassador, Cuneo, a small Italian town near the French border, had something like the “Marseillaise” moment in the movie “Casablanca”: Federico Borgna, the leftist mayor, flew the French flag from a balcony of city hall — an unlikely symbol of dissent in an even more unlikely dispute. Ilaria Maria Sala is an Italian journalist based in Hong Kong.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Roslyn SulcasLONDON — It sounds like an improbable movie pitch: Glamorous ballerina takes over beleaguered ballet company, suffering from budget cuts and a second-string reputation. She hires a contemporary dance choreographer, who has almost no experience working with classically trained performers, to re-envision one of ballet’s most famous and best-loved pieces.It’s a daring — perhaps foolhardy — decision and she must persuade her board and executive director of its value, and raise the money. Then, a month before the premiere, the composer and choreographer part ways.Can a new score be written before the premiere? Will the dancers be able to adapt on time?The director dances the title role, as the ballet opens to rave reviews and rapturous audiences. Her company takes on a new life as a presence on the international scene and an impressive contender on home turf.This is what happened when Tamara Rojo, the Spanish-born, former Royal Ballet ballerina, decided to commission a new version of the Romantic favorite “Giselle” (1841) for English National Ballet, the company she has run since 2012. As her choreographer, she chose Akram Khan, the British dance maker of Bangladeshi origin who rose to fame here with works that combined classical Indian kathak and contemporary dance techniques.“Giselle” premiered at the Manchester International Festival in 2016, and on Feb. 28 it will have its United States debut at the Harris Theater in Chicago — English National Ballet’s first North American appearance in 30 years.Debra Craine, the chief dance critic of The London Times, said Mr. Khan was a surprising choice because he had no history of making ballets. And “English National Ballet doesn’t have the rich patrons that the Royal Ballet has,” she said, “and really has to worry about the budget. To pay for itself, a full-length ballet has to run for years, and that was hardly a sure thing.”Mr. Khan’s “Giselle,” which blends elements of kathak’s arm and hand work and an earthy rooted physicality with ballet’s graceful lines and soaring jumps, cemented Ms. Rojo’s reputation as a determined, risk-taking presence. It gave English National Ballet a new allure, and brought Mr. Khan’s work to the attention of ballet directors: “The phone hasn’t stopped ringing from ballet companies,” he said.“Giselle” has already been seen in Hong Kong and New Zealand, and this summer it will travel to the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow. “We could dance nothing but Akram’s ‘Giselle’ for the next few seasons, if we accepted all the requests we have to perform the ballet,” Ms. Rojo said in an interview with Mr. Khan at English National Ballet’s headquarters near the Royal Albert Hall.One of those requests came from Patricia Barretto, the president and chief executive of the Harris Theater in Chicago, who said that as soon as she heard about the ballet, she was determined to present it. “The ballet couldn’t be more relevant to the cosmopolitan city we live in,” she said in a telephone interview. She added that the cost of bringing the 95-member company for four performances was high, around $1 million: “But we really believed in the importance of bringing this to Chicago.”What does it mean to re-envision a classical ballet? Why has this one sparked so much interest? Here is a primer on “Giselle,” and edited excerpts from a conversation with Ms. Rojo and Mr. Khan.“Giselle,” set to a score by Adolphe Adam, is among the earliest of the 19th-century classical ballets that populate the repertory of most big ballet companies. Choreographed by Jean Coralli and Jules Perrot (and later reworked by Marius Petipa) at a time when poets and artists were fascinated by the supernatural, Act I tells the tale of a young peasant woman, Giselle, seduced by Count Albrecht, who has disguised his noble origins. Once his betrayal is revealed, Giselle goes mad and dies of a broken heart. In Act II, she reappears as a Wili — one of the spirits of young woman betrayed by their lovers, whose mission it is to dance any man they encounter to his death. But when Albrecht visits her grave, Giselle defies her destiny to protect him from the Wilis, redeeming his actions through her love.“Giselle” isn’t an obvious candidate for revision or modernization, partly because it still works so well in its original form, partly because its evocation of the supernatural is so rooted in its time. And the ballet has already had one radical — and very successful — reworking in Mats Ek’s 1982 version, set in a mental hospital.Why did you think this was a good idea?TAMARA ROJO I wanted to do a classical ballet from a new point of view, and I wanted the hardest one, the unquestionable one: “Giselle.” I had seen the Bjork film “Dancer in the Dark,” and I kept thinking: This is Giselle, and it is possible to tell this story in a new context. And it can be just as heartbreaking and disturbing, perhaps more, because I can relate to it. I had commissioned Akram to do “Dust,” a short work for the first mixed bill I did as director; knowing the spirituality of his work, his talent for narrative, I thought he would be the perfect person to take it on.AKRAM KHAN When Tamara asked me, I did think a bit: Are you mad? I had barely seen a ballet, and knew nothing about “Giselle.” I watched it on a DVD, then watched Mats Ek’s version, which really blew me away. Then I thought, I really don’t want to do this!But I realized that the second act was about spirituality and love, and with Ruth Little, my dramaturg, I thought: How can we see “Giselle” now? We were upset and frustrated by the immigration crisis, and there was an incident in Bangladesh in which a factory collapsed and killed many people. Both were in my mind, and both elements found their way into the ballet.Mr. Khan’s “Giselle,” designed by Tim Yip (“Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon”), is set beneath a vast, pitted and scarred wall, which separates the migrant garment factory workers from the wealthy “landlords” who have closed the factory, leaving the workers destitute in a makeshift camp, waiting for work and rescue. The parallels with today’s political preoccupations — whether in the United States or Brexit-era Britain — are striking.How far can you take a work away from its original form and content without changing its essence?KHAN That was a question we asked ourselves. We decided that as long as we had love, forgiveness and betrayal, it was still “Giselle.” Act I was harder to rethink than Act II, which is about life and death, spirituality, the ethereal, themes that come more naturally to me. In Act I, the people onstage had to feel relevant to me. Who are they? What do they represent? Tamara and I talked a lot about that.For me, ballet, and for that matter kathak, the classical Indian dance form that I trained in, don’t belong to a particular era. I wanted to make a piece that was also about what is happening to us right now, although I wasn’t thinking about Brexit or anything specific when we were making it.ROJO I think when you have been inside an art form for a long time, you can lose perspective on what is interesting, what you can relate to. When you read the reviews of the first performances of “Giselle,” you understand that the Wilis were really scary. Now we think of if as a “pretty” ballet, and it has lost some of that impact, which I think is brought back through this context of poverty and migration that Akram gives to the ballet.I don’t think we can keep things frozen in time and sacrosanct. I understand the protective feeling that many of us in the ballet world have about the classics. They are so fragile, passed down almost through Chinese whispers, and we want to cling to them. But if there is one thing I have learned living in Britain and going to the theater, is that you should challenge the classics. They deserve to be alive, to have great minds have a go at them.“You can’t ignore its emotional power,” Ms. Craine said, adding that audiences respond to its “poetic meditation on the themes of the original, filtered through the experience of refugees and displaced people.”What next? Will Ms. Rojo program more story ballets? Will Mr. Khan take on any other ballet classics?“We have a new project,” Ms. Rojo said cautiously. “We’ll tell you soon.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHow Italy’s leaders are tapping resentments, old and new, over immigration, fine art and béchamel. By Ilaria Maria SalaMs. Sala is an Italian journalist.White sauce and migration, the fork and the Mona Lisa, a fast train and an African currency — the points of contention are many. Since coming to power eight months ago, the most unpredictable and quarrelsome government Italy has ever known has managed to pick a colossal fight with, yes, France.On Thursday, the French government called back for “consultations” its ambassador to Italy. Matteo Salvini and Luigi Di Maio, both deputy prime ministers of Italy, had said that they gave their full support to the Gilets Jaunes (Yellow Vests), who have been protesting throughout France for weeks, rattling the presidency of Emmanuel Macron. Then, after meeting representatives of the movement a few days ago, Mr. Di Maio declared that a “new Europe is being born.” The French foreign ministry called the statement yet more “provocation” and manipulation for “electoral aims.”Italy’s two-headed government — an opportunistic alliance between the extreme-right League of Mr. Salvini and the populist, anti-establishment Five Star Movement of Mr. Di Maio — has made a sport of going after France, especially Mr. Macron.Mr. Di Maio, in particular, has called out France’s supposedly neocolonialist relationship with its former territories in Africa, which supposedly impoverishes the continent and causes its people to flee — for Italy. On a popular TV talk show recently, Alessandro Di Battista, a prominent leader of the Five Star Movement and the group’s unofficial economic theorist, pulled out of his pocket a copy of a C.F.A. franc bank note. The C.F.A., which is used in 14 African states, is pegged to the euro and guaranteed by the French treasury against those states’ foreign reserves. Mr. Di Battista tore the bill apart angrily, blaming the currency for keeping Africa down and under France’s yoke.He didn’t mention Italy’s own adventures in Africa in the 19th and 20th centuries, when Italian troops are said to have raped, murdered and gassed civilians, bombed the Red Cross and starved children held in detention. (Those facts still hardly  feature on the history curriculum of Italian schools.) Nor did he mention that many asylum seekers who arrive in Italy today come from Somalia, Eritrea and Ethiopia — an area once colonized in parts by Italy.This flimsy anticolonial stance may be designed to give the Italian government a patina of idealism, but it reveals a muddled understanding of African political and economic dynamics. A new unit called “Task Force Cina”(Task Force China) has been set up in the Ministry of Economic Development, which is under Mr. Di Maio’s control: Its goal is to increase economic exchanges with China and stop migration to Italy by helping China invest in Africa. The Italian government calls France’s involvement in Africa exploitative but seems to think that China’s is no problem. This French-bashing is a new twist in an old story of resentment and rivalry — a medley of unprocessed feelings that can be triggered just as easily by talk of the Napoleonic invasions or the French soccer player Zinedine Zidane’s famous head-butt against an Italian player in the 2006 World Cup Final. Italy won the championship, but with a whiff of illegitimacy after Zidane was taken out of the game. For a long time, I think, some Italians have felt that our country’s contribution to French culture has gone unacknowledged. But now, in the hands of Mr. Salvini and Mr. Di Maio, this sentiment is reaching new heights, in terms of both political expedience and pettiness.The Louvre museum in Paris, where the Mona Lisa is exhibited, has been preparing to commemorate later this year the 500th anniversary of Leonardo da Vinci’s death. The painting became the property of Francis I, a king of France and Leonardo’s patron, after Leonardo’s death in France in the early 16th century — a time when the concept of Italy as a nation was shaky at best. Last year, Italy promised to contribute to the special exhibit by lending the Louvre major, sumptuous pieces, but the new government is mulling how to renege on that pledge.A popular myth has resurfaced on Twitter in these fractious days about how both haute cuisine and humble utensils were introduced to the French court by Catherine de Medici, after she was sent from Florence to Paris to marry Henry II in 1533. Search Twitter for “mangiavate ancora con le mani” (“You’d still be eating with your hands”) and see. Catherine made a rookie’s mistake: She fell in love with her husband even though he was besotted with another woman (Diane de Poitiers). When I was in high school (in Florence), my history teacher consistently referred to her as “la poverina” — the poor thing — for having been twice cheated by the French, out of her love and her culinary expertise.Food historians may have serious grounds to debate the exact parentage of béchamel and the fork, but many assumptions driving the current government’s revisionism are unquestionably wrong. Whatever Mr. Di Battista thinks of French monetary policies in Africa, for example, the highest number of African migrants to Italy come from Nigeria, a former British colony, and not from French-speaking countries.But a populist, right-wing government such as Italy’s today needs an enemy to rally its electorate, in particular at a time of deep economic difficulties. Better to redirect attention on immigration and the French than face up to high unemployment and overall stagnation: Italy formally entered a recession this quarter.Of course, Mr. Macron hasn’t helped matters by hardly behaving diplomatically himself. When Mr. Salvini, also Italy’s interior minister, announced that migrant boats would no longer be allowed to dock in Italian ports, the French president called the move “cynical and irresponsible.” This, even though France’s border with Italy has been closed to migrants and French authorities have been pushing them back into Italy. It is also undeniable that Europe’s southernmost countries like Italy bear a heavier share of the immigration crisis than other European states, partly because of the Dublin Regulation, a much-criticized European law that requires the countries where asylum seekers arrive to screen them and take care of them.And yet, when the European Parliament has discussed reforms aimed at spreading more evenly the burden of immigration among members of the European Union, the League did not participate, and representatives of the Five Star Movement abstained from voting. At a final session last June, the Dublin Regulation wasn’t amended, for lack of votes in favor of reform.Not all Italians are on board, of course. On Thursday, after France called back its ambassador, Cuneo, a small Italian town near the French border, had something like the “Marseillaise” moment in the movie “Casablanca”: Federico Borgna, the leftist mayor, flew the French flag from a balcony of city hall — an unlikely symbol of dissent in an even more unlikely dispute. Ilaria Maria Sala is an Italian journalist based in Hong Kong.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Roslyn SulcasLONDON — It sounds like an improbable movie pitch: Glamorous ballerina takes over beleaguered ballet company, suffering from budget cuts and a second-string reputation. She hires a contemporary dance choreographer, who has almost no experience working with classically trained performers, to re-envision one of ballet’s most famous and best-loved pieces.It’s a daring — perhaps foolhardy — decision and she must persuade her board and executive director of its value, and raise the money. Then, a month before the premiere, the composer and choreographer part ways.Can a new score be written before the premiere? Will the dancers be able to adapt on time?The director dances the title role, as the ballet opens to rave reviews and rapturous audiences. Her company takes on a new life as a presence on the international scene and an impressive contender on home turf.This is what happened when Tamara Rojo, the Spanish-born, former Royal Ballet ballerina, decided to commission a new version of the Romantic favorite “Giselle” (1841) for English National Ballet, the company she has run since 2012. As her choreographer, she chose Akram Khan, the British dance maker of Bangladeshi origin who rose to fame here with works that combined classical Indian kathak and contemporary dance techniques.“Giselle” premiered at the Manchester International Festival in 2016, and on Feb. 28 it will have its United States debut at the Harris Theater in Chicago — English National Ballet’s first North American appearance in 30 years.Debra Craine, the chief dance critic of The London Times, said Mr. Khan was a surprising choice because he had no history of making ballets. And “English National Ballet doesn’t have the rich patrons that the Royal Ballet has,” she said, “and really has to worry about the budget. To pay for itself, a full-length ballet has to run for years, and that was hardly a sure thing.”Mr. Khan’s “Giselle,” which blends elements of kathak’s arm and hand work and an earthy rooted physicality with ballet’s graceful lines and soaring jumps, cemented Ms. Rojo’s reputation as a determined, risk-taking presence. It gave English National Ballet a new allure, and brought Mr. Khan’s work to the attention of ballet directors: “The phone hasn’t stopped ringing from ballet companies,” he said.“Giselle” has already been seen in Hong Kong and New Zealand, and this summer it will travel to the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow. “We could dance nothing but Akram’s ‘Giselle’ for the next few seasons, if we accepted all the requests we have to perform the ballet,” Ms. Rojo said in an interview with Mr. Khan at English National Ballet’s headquarters near the Royal Albert Hall.One of those requests came from Patricia Barretto, the president and chief executive of the Harris Theater in Chicago, who said that as soon as she heard about the ballet, she was determined to present it. “The ballet couldn’t be more relevant to the cosmopolitan city we live in,” she said in a telephone interview. She added that the cost of bringing the 95-member company for four performances was high, around $1 million: “But we really believed in the importance of bringing this to Chicago.”What does it mean to re-envision a classical ballet? Why has this one sparked so much interest? Here is a primer on “Giselle,” and edited excerpts from a conversation with Ms. Rojo and Mr. Khan.“Giselle,” set to a score by Adolphe Adam, is among the earliest of the 19th-century classical ballets that populate the repertory of most big ballet companies. Choreographed by Jean Coralli and Jules Perrot (and later reworked by Marius Petipa) at a time when poets and artists were fascinated by the supernatural, Act I tells the tale of a young peasant woman, Giselle, seduced by Count Albrecht, who has disguised his noble origins. Once his betrayal is revealed, Giselle goes mad and dies of a broken heart. In Act II, she reappears as a Wili — one of the spirits of young woman betrayed by their lovers, whose mission it is to dance any man they encounter to his death. But when Albrecht visits her grave, Giselle defies her destiny to protect him from the Wilis, redeeming his actions through her love.“Giselle” isn’t an obvious candidate for revision or modernization, partly because it still works so well in its original form, partly because its evocation of the supernatural is so rooted in its time. And the ballet has already had one radical — and very successful — reworking in Mats Ek’s 1982 version, set in a mental hospital.Why did you think this was a good idea?TAMARA ROJO I wanted to do a classical ballet from a new point of view, and I wanted the hardest one, the unquestionable one: “Giselle.” I had seen the Bjork film “Dancer in the Dark,” and I kept thinking: This is Giselle, and it is possible to tell this story in a new context. And it can be just as heartbreaking and disturbing, perhaps more, because I can relate to it. I had commissioned Akram to do “Dust,” a short work for the first mixed bill I did as director; knowing the spirituality of his work, his talent for narrative, I thought he would be the perfect person to take it on.AKRAM KHAN When Tamara asked me, I did think a bit: Are you mad? I had barely seen a ballet, and knew nothing about “Giselle.” I watched it on a DVD, then watched Mats Ek’s version, which really blew me away. Then I thought, I really don’t want to do this!But I realized that the second act was about spirituality and love, and with Ruth Little, my dramaturg, I thought: How can we see “Giselle” now? We were upset and frustrated by the immigration crisis, and there was an incident in Bangladesh in which a factory collapsed and killed many people. Both were in my mind, and both elements found their way into the ballet.Mr. Khan’s “Giselle,” designed by Tim Yip (“Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon”), is set beneath a vast, pitted and scarred wall, which separates the migrant garment factory workers from the wealthy “landlords” who have closed the factory, leaving the workers destitute in a makeshift camp, waiting for work and rescue. The parallels with today’s political preoccupations — whether in the United States or Brexit-era Britain — are striking.How far can you take a work away from its original form and content without changing its essence?KHAN That was a question we asked ourselves. We decided that as long as we had love, forgiveness and betrayal, it was still “Giselle.” Act I was harder to rethink than Act II, which is about life and death, spirituality, the ethereal, themes that come more naturally to me. In Act I, the people onstage had to feel relevant to me. Who are they? What do they represent? Tamara and I talked a lot about that.For me, ballet, and for that matter kathak, the classical Indian dance form that I trained in, don’t belong to a particular era. I wanted to make a piece that was also about what is happening to us right now, although I wasn’t thinking about Brexit or anything specific when we were making it.ROJO I think when you have been inside an art form for a long time, you can lose perspective on what is interesting, what you can relate to. When you read the reviews of the first performances of “Giselle,” you understand that the Wilis were really scary. Now we think of if as a “pretty” ballet, and it has lost some of that impact, which I think is brought back through this context of poverty and migration that Akram gives to the ballet.I don’t think we can keep things frozen in time and sacrosanct. I understand the protective feeling that many of us in the ballet world have about the classics. They are so fragile, passed down almost through Chinese whispers, and we want to cling to them. But if there is one thing I have learned living in Britain and going to the theater, is that you should challenge the classics. They deserve to be alive, to have great minds have a go at them.“You can’t ignore its emotional power,” Ms. Craine said, adding that audiences respond to its “poetic meditation on the themes of the original, filtered through the experience of refugees and displaced people.”What next? Will Ms. Rojo program more story ballets? Will Mr. Khan take on any other ballet classics?“We have a new project,” Ms. Rojo said cautiously. “We’ll tell you soon.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFictionBy Rebecca DinersteinSTILL IN LOVE By Michael DowningSUCH GOOD WORK By Johannes LichtmanMichael Downing’s “Still in Love,” the belated sequel to his 1997 novel “Perfect Agreement,” describes a semester inside the classroom. After 20 years teaching composition at McClintock College, the protagonist, Mark Sternum, has been fired for failing a black single mother and found new work as a creative writing professor at Hellman College. Mark champions limitation as the focus of his class: “to have limits, to need limits, to choose our limits, to be defined by those limits, and to learn to love them.”But the novel itself seems less in love with its limits than relieved of the obligation to transcend them. A meticulous realism transcribes in numbing detail every syllable of classroom conversation, alongside a great daily fuss about printing and stapling — the literal pushing of papers. Downing’s prose is as clean as you’d expect from a creative writing teacher at Tufts, but it never ventures out of the everyday and into the curious.The narrative is supplemented by Sternum’s weekly writing assignments and blackboard exercises and Word documents with “track changes” on, presenting itself as more a seminar than a novel. While Mark’s students are required to fulfill intricate plot and form requirements in their stories, the novel’s own concerns are comparatively minor and unstructured: Mark’s tepid relationship with his distant lover, house repairs and the state of the Saab brand today.Mark’s catalog of his students strains to register their identities beyond mere formality: Rashid, his one Muslim student, is noted each time she raises her hand by the changing color of her head scarf. These descriptions are always hyphenated (“sage-green,” “ice-blue”) in a failed effort to suggest he is seeing her clearly. The word “trans” is spoken, whether by Rashid or another student Mark isn’t sure, and the subject drops. A central drama arrives at its anticlimax when Mark’s sympathy for a cancer-ridden student devolves into banal administrative frustration.“Still in Love” presents the classroom as a sacred ground — “that fragile home for possibility, that singular space devoted solely to potential” — and admirably outlines the ways in which writing can be improved on a technical level. But the story keeps its reach curbed and its eyes down until it culminates in a tired plot twist that only makes the narrow world of this novel even smaller.Johannes Lichtman’s debut novel, “Such Good Work,” begins in a similar mode: An anxious male creative writing teacher has trouble navigating the politics and processes of a college campus. Again, oddly, a black single mother is the catalyst for institutional reprimand — although in this case for the protagonist’s failure to be harsh enough with her. Jonas, the teacher, is addicted to opiates as a remedy for social anxiety. Lichtman, a remarkable thinker and social satirist, fills his first 50 pages with a misleadingly pedestrian cycle of basic cowardice, random aggression, flagrant self-congratulation and garden-variety self-loathing, until a Suboxone strip chops up the rhythm of his prose and the book begins in earnest.Relocating to Lund, Sweden, to get clean, Jonas enrolls in a graduate program and lives in a dorm for exchange students. His Swedish mother has gifted him citizenship and language, but the difference between the mother tongue and his mother’s tongue trips Jonas up on his quest to be chatty, idiomatic and cool. From his perch deep within his own self-consciousness, Jonas witnesses the foreign dynamics around him with astonishing lucidity. He can identify the difference between a would-be Swedish Detroit and a Swedish Oakland. Accounts of nine-party political systems lead him to realize that outside the “either/or-ness of Democrat/Republican,” he can’t articulate his own beliefs. America’s measure of “how well you did what you were doing” is timid compared to Sweden’s “Is what you’re doing worthwhile?”Jonas finds a companion in his neighbor Anja, one of the more autonomous, intelligent and unpredictable female characters to grace a male novelist’s debut. Lichtman has a terrific ear for the tiny linguistic cues that reveal completely correct English to be nonetheless foreign, and Anja’s dialogue is delivered in sometimes heartbreakingly poignant German-English. When she concludes a pivotal argument with the simple phrase “that’s what we’ll do,” the reader feels the potency of a kind of communication between lovers that is non-national, non-hierarchical and pronounced in peace.Following that argument, Jonas moves to Malmo, the third-largest city in Sweden and the center of a growing immigration crisis. It’s the spring of 2015, six months before Alan Kurdi’s body washes up on the shore of Turkey. Jonas’s desire to fit in is complicated by the ensuing emergency. His own semi-foreignness looks meager next to the profound alienation of the arriving refugees. Addiction and xenophobia begin to operate as parallel social epidemics, and it’s here that the novel outgrows its own boundaries, becoming stranger and more robust. As Jonas moves away from his lukewarm academic work and toward a volunteer organization teaching Swedish to Afghan unaccompanied minors, he enters a frame of mind in which every instinct is clobbered by an opposing one. Charity becomes danger, connection becomes insult, and aid becomes restriction in a dizzying but sincere engagement with two of our most unsolvable global problems.“Such Good Work” introduces a writer who is willing to openly contradict himself, to stand corrected, to honor both men and women, to ask sincere questions and let them ring unanswered. His classroom is a more viable sanctuary because the difficult world lights its windows.Rebecca Dinerstein is the author of the novel “The Sunlit Night,” soon to be a feature film, and the forthcoming novel “Hex.”STILL IN LOVE By Michael Downing 194 pp. Counterpoint. $26. SUCH GOOD WORK By Johannes Lichtman 292 pp. Simon & Schuster. $26.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFictionBy Rebecca DinersteinSTILL IN LOVE By Michael DowningSUCH GOOD WORK By Johannes LichtmanMichael Downing’s “Still in Love,” the belated sequel to his 1997 novel “Perfect Agreement,” describes a semester inside the classroom. After 20 years teaching composition at McClintock College, the protagonist, Mark Sternum, has been fired for failing a black single mother and found new work as a creative writing professor at Hellman College. Mark champions limitation as the focus of his class: “to have limits, to need limits, to choose our limits, to be defined by those limits, and to learn to love them.”But the novel itself seems less in love with its limits than relieved of the obligation to transcend them. A meticulous realism transcribes in numbing detail every syllable of classroom conversation, alongside a great daily fuss about printing and stapling — the literal pushing of papers. Downing’s prose is as clean as you’d expect from a creative writing teacher at Tufts, but it never ventures out of the everyday and into the curious.The narrative is supplemented by Sternum’s weekly writing assignments and blackboard exercises and Word documents with “track changes” on, presenting itself as more a seminar than a novel. While Mark’s students are required to fulfill intricate plot and form requirements in their stories, the novel’s own concerns are comparatively minor and unstructured: Mark’s tepid relationship with his distant lover, house repairs and the state of the Saab brand today.Mark’s catalog of his students strains to register their identities beyond mere formality: Rashid, his one Muslim student, is noted each time she raises her hand by the changing color of her head scarf. These descriptions are always hyphenated (“sage-green,” “ice-blue”) in a failed effort to suggest he is seeing her clearly. The word “trans” is spoken, whether by Rashid or another student Mark isn’t sure, and the subject drops. A central drama arrives at its anticlimax when Mark’s sympathy for a cancer-ridden student devolves into banal administrative frustration.“Still in Love” presents the classroom as a sacred ground — “that fragile home for possibility, that singular space devoted solely to potential” — and admirably outlines the ways in which writing can be improved on a technical level. But the story keeps its reach curbed and its eyes down until it culminates in a tired plot twist that only makes the narrow world of this novel even smaller.Johannes Lichtman’s debut novel, “Such Good Work,” begins in a similar mode: An anxious male creative writing teacher has trouble navigating the politics and processes of a college campus. Again, oddly, a black single mother is the catalyst for institutional reprimand — although in this case for the protagonist’s failure to be harsh enough with her. Jonas, the teacher, is addicted to opiates as a remedy for social anxiety. Lichtman, a remarkable thinker and social satirist, fills his first 50 pages with a misleadingly pedestrian cycle of basic cowardice, random aggression, flagrant self-congratulation and garden-variety self-loathing, until a Suboxone strip chops up the rhythm of his prose and the book begins in earnest.Relocating to Lund, Sweden, to get clean, Jonas enrolls in a graduate program and lives in a dorm for exchange students. His Swedish mother has gifted him citizenship and language, but the difference between the mother tongue and his mother’s tongue trips Jonas up on his quest to be chatty, idiomatic and cool. From his perch deep within his own self-consciousness, Jonas witnesses the foreign dynamics around him with astonishing lucidity. He can identify the difference between a would-be Swedish Detroit and a Swedish Oakland. Accounts of nine-party political systems lead him to realize that outside the “either/or-ness of Democrat/Republican,” he can’t articulate his own beliefs. America’s measure of “how well you did what you were doing” is timid compared to Sweden’s “Is what you’re doing worthwhile?”Jonas finds a companion in his neighbor Anja, one of the more autonomous, intelligent and unpredictable female characters to grace a male novelist’s debut. Lichtman has a terrific ear for the tiny linguistic cues that reveal completely correct English to be nonetheless foreign, and Anja’s dialogue is delivered in sometimes heartbreakingly poignant German-English. When she concludes a pivotal argument with the simple phrase “that’s what we’ll do,” the reader feels the potency of a kind of communication between lovers that is non-national, non-hierarchical and pronounced in peace.Following that argument, Jonas moves to Malmo, the third-largest city in Sweden and the center of a growing immigration crisis. It’s the spring of 2015, six months before Alan Kurdi’s body washes up on the shore of Turkey. Jonas’s desire to fit in is complicated by the ensuing emergency. His own semi-foreignness looks meager next to the profound alienation of the arriving refugees. Addiction and xenophobia begin to operate as parallel social epidemics, and it’s here that the novel outgrows its own boundaries, becoming stranger and more robust. As Jonas moves away from his lukewarm academic work and toward a volunteer organization teaching Swedish to Afghan unaccompanied minors, he enters a frame of mind in which every instinct is clobbered by an opposing one. Charity becomes danger, connection becomes insult, and aid becomes restriction in a dizzying but sincere engagement with two of our most unsolvable global problems.“Such Good Work” introduces a writer who is willing to openly contradict himself, to stand corrected, to honor both men and women, to ask sincere questions and let them ring unanswered. His classroom is a more viable sanctuary because the difficult world lights its windows.Rebecca Dinerstein is the author of the novel “The Sunlit Night,” soon to be a feature film, and the forthcoming novel “Hex.”STILL IN LOVE By Michael Downing 194 pp. Counterpoint. $26. SUCH GOOD WORK By Johannes Lichtman 292 pp. Simon & Schuster. $26.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement