AdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanSAN ANTONIO — Donald J. Trump got Brenda Hernandez’s hopes up in 2016 when he indicated that he had a heart for young undocumented immigrants like her, who were brought into the country by their parents. But her hopes were dashed when Mr. Trump became president and ordered an end to the federal program known as DACA that shields her from deportation.After the president’s latest announcement on Saturday — that he was proposing to end the standoff over the partial government shutdown by, among other things, temporarily extending that shield — Ms. Hernandez just shrugged.“I don’t trust Trump — I don’t believe him,” she said as she hoisted her 3-year-old son onto a swivel chair at the D & H Beauty Salon in San Antonio. The blue-collar shop, with rows of wooden chairs in the waiting area, is a favorite among immigrants in the city. But in the hours after Mr. Trump’s White House address, his latest offer of an immigration deal was finding little support.[Read: In Trump’s Immigration Announcement, A Compromise Snubbed All Around]In exchange for $5.7 billion to erect a barrier along the border with Mexico, Mr. Trump said he would agree to extend protection for three years for the roughly 800,000 immigrants who benefit from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which covers people brought into the country illegally as children. The president held out the hope of similar relief for 300,000 immigrants living in the United States with temporary protected status, known as T.P.S., after fleeing earthquakes and other disasters in their own countries.“I am here today to break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward to end the government shutdown and solve the crisis along the southern border,” Mr. Trump said, calling his offer “a common-sense compromise both parties can embrace.”But many of the clients waiting their turn for a $6 haircut or shave at the D & H salon, in a strip mall in the northern part of the city, greeted Mr. Trump’s announcement with skepticism, if not downright indifference. Most expressed deep reservations about a border wall, deeming it a waste of money.Eliseo Castillo, 60, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, said an extension of DACA’s protections from deportation, and its offer of work permits, could benefit his 26-year-old son. He said his son had relied on the program for years to get a driver’s license and a job and to live without the fear that even a minor misstep, like driving with a broken taillight, could land him in deportation proceedings.But Mr. Castillo, a construction contractor who relies on a steady flow of workers from Latin America, said he wondered what would happen to his business if a reinforced border wall halted the flow of workers. He said he is already having trouble hiring enough laborers.“The fact is, there is not an American who wants to mix cement, do carpentry and heavy work,” said Mr. Castillo, who employs 18 people to lay down foundations for houses in San Antonio’s expansive subdivisions.Mr. Castillo, who wears cowboy boots and bluejeans and keeps his silver hair in a braid, has called Texas home since the 1980s. But he harbors no illusions about legalizing his status, at least as long as Mr. Trump holds the highest office in the land.Waiting his turn for a haircut in paint-splattered trousers that gave away how he earns his living, Jose Ramos, 63, a naturalized American born in Mexico, said he had no faith that Mr. Trump, whose “favorite sport is blaming immigrants for everything, which is not right,” would ever keep his word.“This isn’t a deal,” Mr. Ramos said. “Trump is just offering to give back what he already took away.”Democrats in Washington have criticized the president for offering to extend DACA and T.P.S. protections, when it was he who had ordered those protections revoked. Some have called the offer a nonstarter because it did not include any long-term solutions, like a path to permanent legal status or citizenship for DACA recipients, who are known as Dreamers.But many people in San Antonio never had much faith that such solutions were even possible with Mr. Trump as president.Indeed, some in the city wonder how much the president knows about the border.Speaking with reporters on Saturday, Mr. Trump cited the city as a place that had benefited from building a border barrier. “You look at San Antonio, you look at so many different places, they go from one of the most unsafe cities in the country to one of the safest cities, immediately, immediately,” he said.But San Antonio is 150 miles from the border, and has no wall.Alicia Alaniz, 47, the stylist working at station 7 in the salon, rolled her eyes and said that the only thing she could agree with in Mr. Trump’s statement was the notion that the immigration system was “broken.”“We need immigration reform — it would benefit the country and everyone who lives here,” said Ms. Alaniz, a legal permanent resident who emigrated from Mexico. People just want to work the right way, and support this country that has brought them many blessings.”President Obama introduced DACA in June 2012 as a temporary reprieve for young unauthorized immigrants, at a time when Congress was in a stalemate over immigration policy. To qualify for DACA protection, immigrants must have lived in the United States for much of their lives and meet certain other requirements, like passing a background check and completing high school.On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump vowed to eliminate any program that Mr. Obama had created by executive action, including DACA, a stance that generated deep anxiety among the Dreamers.But in December 2016, shortly after winning election, Mr. Trump softened his position.“We’re going to work something out that’s going to make people happy and proud,” he told Time magazine. “They got brought here at a very young age, they’ve worked here, they’ve gone to school here. Some were good students. Some have wonderful jobs. And they’re in never-never land because they don’t know what’s going to happen.”Once in office, however, Mr. Trump appointed one of the fiercest opponents of the DACA program, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, as his attorney general. Mr. Sessions rescinded DACA in September 2017, but the action was challenged in court and has yet to take full effect, while the courts decide the program’s fate.Without work permits provided under the program, young immigrants would face cascading, and possibly dire, consequences: They would lose their jobs, driver’s licenses and the chance to attend college at in-state tuition rates.Friday was the last day the Supreme Court could accept an appeal and schedule any arguments on the DACA litigation in its current session, and the court let the day pass without addressing the Trump administration’s bid to kill the program. That ensures that DACA will survive at least until the court’s next session, which begins in October.When the administration made its bid to end the program, “I worried about what I would do; I was so sad,” said Ms. Hernandez, who works these days for a casual dining chain known as Zoe’s Kitchen. But with the issue tied up in the courts, she said she has simply had to get on with her life. “Now, I don’t even think about it,” she said.Her DACA permit expires in a year.An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a salon in San Antonio that is popular with immigrants. It is the D & H Beauty Salon, not H & D.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — Immigrant advocates denounced it as cruel. The conservative right howled that it was amnesty.What President Trump billed on Saturday as a compromise to end the country’s longest government shutdown pleased neither the Democratic congressional leaders whose buy-in he needs to strike a deal nor the core supporters whose backing has always been at the heart of his insistence on a border wall.Instead, in offering temporary protections for about one million immigrants at risk of deportation in exchange for funding for a wall, Mr. Trump did something rarely seen during his presidency. He tried to reach beyond his base of supporters — which polls have begun to show is losing patience with him as the partial shutdown drags into its fifth week — and speak to a broader swath of Americans.The Saturday afternoon speech from the West Wing was an attempt by Mr. Trump to, at the very least, shift the narrative of the past several weeks and show that rather than spoiling for a longer shutdown fight or making unreasonable demands, he was looking for a broadly acceptable way out of a morass he once boasted he was proud to wade into.“I think you could tell by the president’s remarks today,” Vice President Mike Pence said, “that we’re reaching out.”Yet in seeking to inch toward the center, Mr. Trump alienated portions of his hard-right base, the core supporters he most depends on and the group he and his closest aides have most feared losing. That raised the possibility that, in his zeal to get out of an intractable situation, he may have landed himself in the worst of all worlds, without a clear solution or the support of his most ardent followers.[Read: Trump’s Deal Meets With Skepticism Among Immigrants in Texas]The tensions and anger over the policy have been quietly playing out in the West Wing as well, as Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, fended off Stephen Miller, the architect of much of Mr. Trump’s immigration agenda. Mr. Kushner has long been a proponent of protections for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, while Mr. Miller has pressed for aggressive measures to crack down on both legal and illegal immigration.In recent days, as White House officials had been working out the details of the compromise, Mr. Miller intervened to narrow the universe of immigrants who would receive protection, according to people familiar with the internal discussions who described them on the condition of anonymity.While the original idea had been to include protections for as many as 1.8 million undocumented immigrants eligible for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program known as DACA that protected those illegally brought to the United States as children, Mr. Trump ultimately proposed shielding only the 700,000 who are enrolled.Mr. Kushner conceded in a briefing after the president’s speech that he did not see the proposal as a solution for the DACA program, which Mr. Trump moved to rescind in 2017.“At this moment in time,” Mr. Kushner said, “this is a good path forward.”Many conservatives did not share that view.“Trump proposes amnesty,” the conservative commentator Ann Coulter said on Twitter. “We voted for Trump and got Jeb!” she added, referring to Jeb Bush, who challenged Mr. Trump for the Republican nomination in 2016 and supported a broad immigration overhaul that would have given undocumented immigrants a path to legal status.Still, in the eyes of many White House officials, the prospect that Mr. Trump could use the proposal to shift blame for the shutdown and pressure Democrats to end the impasse was worth trying. Mr. Pence argued on Saturday that the speech was a “sincere effort” by Mr. Trump to break the logjam, and he and other White House officials suggested that the measure could attract enough support to succeed from centrist Democrats fed up with the shutdown and willing to side with Republicans.But such a coalition did not appear to be forming, and courting one bears considerable risk for a president who is most comfortable when he is defying convention, eschewing compromise and being hailed as a hero by supporters who often equate bipartisan deal making with weak-kneed capitulation.The vast majority of Democrats knocked the approach. While many of them have pressed for measures to protect DACA recipients and immigrants living in the United States under Temporary Protected Status enacted when their countries were destabilized by war or catastrophe, most regard the proposal he put forth on Saturday as woefully inadequate. It offers only three years of protections for the DACA recipients and those who hold T.P.S., which the Trump administration has also moved to end for several countries.“This is not an amnesty bill,” Mr. Pence said. “There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal.”That was high on Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s list of reasons to call the plan “unacceptable.”That is unlikely to matter to the president. Despite saying publicly last month that he would be proud to own a shutdown over the wall, and privately displaying confidence that his base would stick with him through the fight, Mr. Trump has been dismayed to find otherwise in recent days.An NPR poll released last week showed Mr. Trump’s approval ratings down and the first cracks in backing among critical supporters, including whites without a college education and white evangelicals.Such pressure from what he has called the forgotten men and women who elected him and chant “Build! The! Wall!” at his arena rallies has swayed Mr. Trump before, including last year, when the conservative news site Breitbart branded him “Amnesty Don” for considering a similar deal that would have provided $25 billion in wall funding for a path to legal status for those the DACA program was created to help. The president ultimately abandoned that agreement, concerned about angering his base and after Mr. Miller and others advised him he should insist on additional immigration restrictions.On Saturday night, Breitbart panned Mr. Trump’s latest idea with the headline “Three-Year Amnesty, Most of Border Remains Open.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — President Trump attacked Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Sunday for rejecting his proposal to end the partial government shutdown, as he and Republican leaders in Congress sought to put Democrats on defense, a place they have rarely been during the shutdown stalemate.In a series of morning tweets, Mr. Trump said Ms. Pelosi had behaved “so irrationally” in spurning his offer to restore the temporary protections he took away from some undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border wall. He also pushed back against conservative critics who called the plan amnesty for immigrants who came to the United States illegally.Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, plans to bring up legislation as early as Tuesday that would wrap Mr. Trump’s proposal into a broader package that would include billions of dollars in disaster relief and immediately reopen the government, an aide said. The move is intended to ratchet up pressure on Democrats, who have insisted they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump until the shutdown is over.“President Trump has put forward a serious and reasonable offer to reform parts of our broken immigration system and reopen government,” Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republican leader, said on Twitter. “The moment now turns to Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer. The country is watching.”But there was little indication from Democrats, who have denounced Mr. Trump’s plan as “hostage taking,” that they would abandon that position.“If he opens up the government, we’ll discuss whatever he offers, but hostage taking should not work,” Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, told reporters in New York on Sunday, adding, “It’s very hard to negotiate when a gun is held to your head.”With the shutdown now in its fifth week, and 800,000 federal employees still furloughed or working without pay, pressure is rising on both Republicans and Democrats to end it. If it lasts until Friday, Congress will be forced to reckon with another grim milestone: Affected workers will miss their second paycheck.[Read: Trump’s Deal Meets With Skepticism Among Immigrants in Texas]As Republicans go on offense in the Senate, Democrats will stay on offense in the House, where they have already passed a string of government funding bills that Mr. McConnell — who has largely remained on the sidelines during the shutdown debate — has refused to take up. On Wednesday, Ms. Pelosi plans to bring up a package of six bills to fund shuttered government agencies, ignoring Mr. Trump’s requests.The measures gained approval last year from Republicans on the House and Senate Appropriations Committees; in effect, Ms. Pelosi will be daring Republicans to vote against their own legislation. Democrats will also begin talking more about their own vision for border security — a shift in strategy for a party that has focused mostly on the economic and personal toll of the shutdown.Amid the posturing, however, there were some hints that Mr. Trump’s proposal, which he unveiled in a 13-minute White House address on Saturday, might open the door to talks that could result in a deal. Vice President Mike Pence, in an appearance on “Fox News Sunday,” suggested that Mr. Trump’s proposal might be amended on the Senate floor.“Well, of course,” Mr. Pence said, when the host, Chris Wallace, asked if he was open to negotiation. “The legislative process is a negotiation.”And Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, a centrist Democrat, described Mr. Trump’s plan as “a starting point” on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” though he added, “You’ve got to start by reopening the government.”The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected.Polls show the public largely blames Mr. Trump for the shutdown, and his advisers have been searching for an exit strategy. Last week, Mr. McConnell told Mr. Trump, Mr. Pence and White House advisers that he needed the president to put forth a public offer so he could bring legislation to the floor.“McConnell’s view of shutdowns is when you’re in one, it’s a great opportunity for both sides to get things,” said Scott Jennings, a Republican strategist and former McConnell aide who remains close to him. “And what I think is dumbfounding everyone here is: Why aren’t the Democrats treating it as a situation where they could get something? The president has opened the door for them to get something, so let’s talk.”Throughout his administration, Mr. Trump has sought to limit both legal and illegal immigration. Last year, he moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, which shielded from deportation hundreds of thousands of young unauthorized immigrants known as Dreamers. He also revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., for some undocumented immigrants from Latin American and African countries.In the plan he unveiled on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore the DACA and T.P.S. protections for three years. But Democrats say that is a nonstarter, because it does not offer a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers, and because Mr. Trump is simply giving back protections that he himself took away.The McConnell aide, Don Stewart, said the Republican legislative package would include seven appropriations bills that would fund government agencies that have been partially closed for a month.“The legislation that the majority leader will bring to the floor this week would both reopen the remaining portions of the government, fund disaster relief, fund border security and address immigration issues that both Republicans and Democrats would like to address — all in one bill,” Mr. Stewart said.Mr. McConnell would need votes from all Republicans and seven Democrats for the package to pass. But only a handful of Democrats in Republican-leaning states might feel pressured enough to cross the aisle. A spokesman for one of them, Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, said Mr. Manchin — who just won re-election — would remain undecided on the Republican proposal until he saw it.In broadening the package beyond Mr. Trump’s plan, Mr. McConnell may be trying to pick up additional Democrats — especially those who are eager to vote for disaster relief.“He’s starting to move the pieces around to see what’s going to fly and what’s not going to make it,” said Jim Manley, who was a top aide to Harry Reid, the former Democratic leader from Nevada. “He’s trying to put the pressure back on Democrats, and he’s trying to see what the possibilities of a deal are by putting a larger package there. He’s trying to see how large the package has to be to bring Democrats on board.”But Mr. Trump seemed to be holding fast. He retweeted a series of endorsements of his proposal from Republican lawmakers on Sunday evening, and earlier in the day, he took aim at Ms. Pelosi and pushed back against conservative critics who have described the plan as amnesty for undocumented immigrants.“Nancy Pelosi and some of the Democrats turned down my offer yesterday before I even got up to speak,” Mr. Trump wrote. “They don’t see crime & drugs, they only see 2020 — which they are not going to win. Best economy! They should do the right thing for the Country & allow people to go back to work.”Mr. Trump went on: “Nancy Pelosi has behaved so irrationally & has gone so far to the left that she has now officially become a Radical Democrat. She is so petrified of the ‘lefties’ in her party that she has lost control...And by the way, clean up the streets in San Francisco, they are disgusting!”And to his conservative critics, Mr. Trump wrote: “No, Amnesty is not a part of my offer. It is a 3 year extension of DACA. Amnesty will be used only on a much bigger deal, whether on immigration or something else. Likewise there will be no big push to remove the 11,000,000 plus people who are here illegally — but be careful Nancy!”Ms. Pelosi took to Twitter to strike back. “@realdonaldtrump, 800,000 Americans are going without pay. Re-open the government, let workers get their paychecks and then we can discuss how we can come together to protect the border,” she wrote, using the hashtag #EndTheShutdown.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — President Trump, facing a growing public backlash over the partial government shutdown, shifted course on Saturday and offered Democrats a deal: temporary protections for roughly 700,000 young undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a wall along the southern border.But the proposal, which Mr. Trump unveiled in a 13-minute address from the White House, appeared dead on arrival in the Capitol. Speaker Nancy Pelosi rejected it even before Mr. Trump spoke, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, denounced the offer as “not a compromise but more hostage taking.”With the shutdown entering its fifth week and polls showing a majority of the public blaming Mr. Trump, the president’s advisers have been searching for an exit strategy. Saturday’s speech grew out of talks that Vice President Mike Pence and the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, have had in recent days with lawmakers including Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader.The proposal was Mr. Trump’s first public offer to Democrats since the partial shutdown began nearly a month ago. It came after an acrimonious week of tit-for-tat politics, in which Ms. Pelosi told the president he could not deliver his State of the Union address in the Capitol until the shutdown was over, and the president retaliated by grounding a plane that was supposed to take Ms. Pelosi on a fact-finding mission to Afghanistan.In casting the plan as a compromise, the president sought to shift pressure to Democrats — who have repeatedly refused to give Mr. Trump any money for his border wall — to end the shutdown. But Democrats continued to insist they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump over border security until the government reopens.Over the course of his administration, Mr. Trump has repeatedly sought to curb both legal and illegal immigration. He has revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., which offers crucial protections for immigrants, for people from some Latin American and African countries. And he has moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, an Obama-era program that shielded the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation.In the deal he outlined on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore T.P.S. protection for 300,000 people, and said he would allow 700,000 Dreamers to keep their protections for three more years in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border barrier.“That is our plan,” Mr. Trump said. “Border security, DACA, T.P.S. Many other things. Straightforward, fair, reasonable and common sense with lots of compromise.” The proposal, Mr. Trump added, was intended to “break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward.”The speech was the second time during the shutdown that the president addressed the nation about the immigration crisis. But unlike his first address, a prime-time broadcast from the Oval Office that leaned heavily on dark messaging about the dangers of crime and illegal drugs flowing across the border, Mr. Trump seemed on Saturday to soften his tone.He paired the address with his first naturalization ceremony at the White House, a move intended to underscore the idea that he supports legal immigration. And his language was markedly different; instead of insisting on the “big beautiful wall” he promised during his 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump took care to use the word “barrier” as well — and seemed to pare back his vision for it.Calling the wall “a powerful and beautifully designed see-through steel barrier on our southern border,” Mr. Trump said: “This is not a 2,000-mile concrete structure from sea to sea. These are steel barriers in high priority locations. Much of the border is already protected by natural barriers such as mountains and water.”Mr. Trump noted that he had adopted some Democratic proposals on border security. The president proposed $800 million for humanitarian assistance and $805 million for drug detection technology, in addition to funding for 2,750 more border agents and law enforcement officials and 75 new immigration judge teams.In her talking points, issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosi said her party favored “new drug, weapons and contraband scanning technology at official ports of entry,” and “filling the more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers.” Ms. Pelosi also intends to bring up legislation in the coming days that includes an additional $1 billion for border security, including $563 million for 75 new immigration judges and support staff.Even so, Democrats roundly criticized the president’s plan. They were particularly incensed that Mr. Trump’s offer extended protections to Dreamers and T.P.S. recipients that he himself revoked. And they said the deal was a nonstarter because it did not offer any permanent protections for Dreamers.“I think it’s simply more fake promises raising false hopes,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said. “It will fool few Americans because it’s neither serious nor credible as a real remedy for Dreamers.”Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.Some on the right also pushed back, describing the proposal as amnesty. James Carafano, a national security expert at the Heritage Foundation who worked on Mr. Trump’s transition, was among the critics. “Amnesty encourages further illegal immigration, incentivizes the tragedy of human trafficking and undermines our citizens’ confidence in the rule of law,” he said.Mr. Pence, briefing reporters after Mr. Trump’s remarks, said the speech reflected a painstaking process of listening to lawmakers, including rank-and-file Democrats who made it clear they believed that protections for DACA and T.P.S. recipients must be included in a border security deal.And he pushed back forcefully against critics like Mr. Carafano who said the measure amounted to an unacceptable amnesty for undocumented immigrants.“There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal,” Mr. Pence said.But that was one reason many Democrats considered it unacceptable. Other senior administration officials made it clear that part of Mr. Trump’s strategy was to try to drive a wedge within the party between those who want to hold out for a much more generous solution and those who may feel enough political pressure to end the shutdown that they will feel obliged to support it.Noting that Tuesday is the deadline for the government to reopen in time to prevent federal employees from going a second consecutive pay period without a check, Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, said Senate Democrats had a tricky decision to make. He also noted that the president’s ability to declare a national emergency was “absolutely” still a tool available to Mr. Trump to find funds to build the wall if a legislative agreement could not be reached.Now it will be up to Mr. McConnell to put legislation incorporating Mr. Trump’s proposal on the Senate floor.Mr. McConnell — who has insisted he will not put any legislation on the floor unless the president will sign it — spoke to Mr. Trump, Mr. Kushner and Mr. Pence on Thursday night about finding a way forward.Mr. McConnell told the president that before he could bring up legislation on the Senate floor, he needed a “public reassurance” that Mr. Trump would sign it, one person close to the talks said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to describe sensitive discussions.The president’s proposal “strikes a fair compromise by incorporating priorities from both sides of the aisle,” Mr. McConnell said in a statement after Mr. Trump’s speech.If Mr. McConnell does indeed put a bill on the floor, as the president said he would, Senate Democrats will have to decide whether to block it or let it come up for a vote. Despite Democrats’ vow to reject the measure, it could create an opening for negotiations between the two sides.The shutdown stalemate is creating increasing nervousness on Capitol Hill, especially among Republicans seeking re-election in Democratic-leaning states. One of them, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, is among only a handful of Republicans who have broken with the president and called for the government to reopen without a border security deal.On Saturday, she praised the president, saying she hoped that Mr. Trump’s offer would “lead to constructive debate that will end this impasse.”White House aides and allies of Mr. Trump said Saturday that Mr. Trump succeeded in ratcheting up the political pressure on Ms. Pelosi, especially if the Senate succeeded in passing a bill.“The Democrats’ talking points have been that the president is solely responsible for shutting down the government,” Marc Short, the former White House legislative director, said. “This puts more onus on them to come back and say why this proposal is insufficient.”But one reason Democrats are so leery of the deal is that they have been down this road with the president before. Last year, Mr. Trump and Mr. Schumer negotiated $25 billion in wall money for a pathway to citizenship for the Dreamers. But that deal fell apart when hard-line White House advisers persuaded the president to back away.The standoff over the shutdown, some former aides noted, was the first time Mr. Trump has had to engage in meaningful, high-stakes negotiations. But even that has come as a last resort, in what some have likened to negotiating out of desperation after failing to score political points.Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — House Democrats have added more than $1 billion in border-related spending to a package of funding bills that would reopen most of the government, even as President Trump said he would have a “major announcement” on Saturday about the border and the shutdown stalemate.[The Latest: In White House Address, Trump Proposes DACA Deal in Exchange for Wall Funding]Both sides’ actions were the first indications of possible movement over the shutdown after a week of inertia and harsh words between Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Mr. Trump. That conflict culminated when the president, responding to Ms. Pelosi’s request that he postpone his State of the Union address, announced on Thursday that he would not authorize the use of a military plane to fly her and other members of Congress to Afghanistan to meet with American troops.Ms. Pelosi said Friday she was postponing the trip after the White House leaked her alternative plan to use a commercial airline because she had been advised it was too dangerous.“Why would Nancy Pelosi leave the Country with other Democrats on a seven day excursion when 800,000 great people are not getting paid?” Mr. Trump asked on Twitter before Ms. Pelosi’s office had announced the postponement. The trip had actually been scheduled for six days, departing late Thursday and returning on Tuesday.The proposal to include more spending on border measures is scheduled for a vote next week, according to two senior Democratic officials. The plan reflects a shift in strategy by congressional Democrats, who have maintained that they would not give the president a counterproposal until he drops his insistence on a wall and signs legislation to reopen the government. It is an attempt to rebut Mr. Trump’s repeated portrayal of Democrats as opponents of border security and their denunciation of his wall as an embrace of open borders.About half the money, $524 million, would be for additional infrastructure at ports of entry on the border, one Democrat said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the plans have not been formally announced, while $563 million more would be inserted to fund 75 immigration judges, who adjudicate the claims of migrants who make asylum claims at the border.The funds were incorporated into a package of six spending bills that House and Senate Republicans and Democrats agreed to last year, and which cover funding for all the closed portions of the federal government except for the Department of Homeland Security.Democrats are also considering a new funding bill for the department, which has $1.3 billion allocated for border security. The proposal would include additional border protection measures they have endorsed, such as more personnel and scanning technology to intercept illicit drugs.It is far from clear whether the strategy will lead anywhere given Mr. Trump’s demand that any such measure must include money for his wall. Over the past two weeks, the House has passed an array of bills to reopen the government, including several Republican-drafted measures, only to be blocked by Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, who says he will not bring up any bill the president will not sign.But the ideas amount to a tacit acknowledgment by Democrats that, even as they criticize Mr. Trump’s tactics and demands in the shutdown fight, they have largely allowed him to define the terms of the debate on border security, and that they must be more effective in articulating their own position on the issue.“People want to make sure that it’s clear that the Democrats do stand for border security, and not allow the president to determine how we talk about it,” said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California. “We can’t cave to his vision for a wall, because of everything that it represents, but we also want to show that we’re for something.”The issue came up in a meeting of the Democratic caucus this week as Ms. Pelosi was briefing rank-and-file lawmakers about her latest broadside against Mr. Trump over the shutdown: her letter requesting that he delay or cancel his State of the Union address this month in light of the security measures that would have to be provided by federal workers who are working without pay. Mr. Trump’s response was to prevent Ms. Pelosi from taking her trip on a military plane.His letter to Ms. Pelosi announcing that step also disclosed her itinerary, which was secret given that Afghanistan was her destination. Official congressional trips are kept confidential for security reasons, particularly when they involve travel to war zones and high-ranking leaders like the speaker, who is second in line to the presidency.“You never give advance notice of going into a battle area — you just never do,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters at the Capitol, adding that Mr. Trump may not have understood that because of his inexperience.“The people around him, though, should have known that,” she said. “That’s very dangerous.”After Ms. Pelosi rushed to salvage the trip by making alternative travel arrangements to fly commercial instead, people close to Mr. Trump who had been briefed revealed the speaker’s plans to reporters late Thursday. By dawn on Friday, said Drew Hammill, her deputy chief of staff, facing a heightened State Department threat assessment and amid concern that the administration’s leaks had further compromised the safety of those involved, Ms. Pelosi canceled the trip.A White House official on Friday denied the charge, saying that there was no way for Ms. Pelosi to have kept her trip a secret and that any suggestion of a leak “is a flat-out lie.”Ms. Pelosi was asked by reporters on Friday whether she considered Mr. Trump’s grounding of her plane a reprisal for her request to delay his speech. “I would hope not,” she said. “I don’t think the president would be that petty, do you?”Mr. Trump had been just as pointed in his letter to Ms. Pelosi a day earlier, writing that with federal workers not receiving their paychecks, he was asking her to delay what he branded a “public relations event.”As the bad blood continued between the president and the speaker, the White House announced a new policy on Friday that banning all official, taxpayer-funded congressional travel for the duration of the shutdown, unless lawmakers had direct approval from Mr. Trump’s team.“Under no circumstances during a government shutdown will any government-owned, rented, leased or chartered aircraft support any congressional delegation, without the express written approval of the White House chief of staff,” Russell T. Vought, the acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, wrote in a memo announcing the change.Travel expenses also will not be paid for such trips, the memo said, suggesting that even if lawmakers sought to keep their plans and fly commercial, they would have to pay personally for the trip.Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, was on one such trip to Turkey this week. Asked whether Mr. Graham would have to cover his travel and expenses, his office referred questions to the White House.An administration official said the policy would not apply to Mr. Graham’s trip, since he had departed before the change was made.Annie Karni and Katie Rogers contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Christina GoldbaumOffering traditional Mexican food and social justice conversations, La Morada in the South Bronx is equal parts restaurant and refuge. Run by an immigrant family from Oaxaca, it is home to both fresh tostadas and a community book exchange.The purple walls are adorned with posters denouncing deportations and neighborhood children’s art projects. And one member of the family once spent two weeks in an Arizona immigration jail — by choice — as a form of political protest.But on Friday, an altercation between one of La Morada’s owners and police officers turned the haven into a hostile flash point, fracturing an often strained relationship between police officers in the 40th Precinct and the community they serve in the South Bronx.The interaction resulted in the arrest of Yajaira Saavedra, a daughter of Natalia Mendez and Antonio Saavedra, who opened the restaurant in 2009. Police also attempted to arrest her younger sister, Carolina, 25, but after Carolina started showing signs of a panic attack, police did not carry out the arrest, according to the Saavedra family.A few hours later Ms. Saavedra, 30, was released and her arrest voided after police determined she had not committed a crime.“As an undocumented immigrant, we are always on our toes when it comes to immigration raids and police raids, ” said Ms. Saavedra, who is a recipient of DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program that protects undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children. “They both create terror.”Accounts of the incident depict an ill-fated encounter between police in the midst of a sting operation that ended with an officer’s safety in jeopardy and a community with deep-seated distrust of all police activity.La Morada is situated in a part of New York City where homicides, fueled by entrenched poverty and rival criminal crews fighting over turf, stubbornly persist.Whereas some police precincts in New York now regularly experience no killings in a given year, the 40th Precinct in the Bronx — made up of the Melrose, Mott Haven, and Port Morris neighborhoods — logged 14 in 2016, six in 2017, and eight last year.To crack down on crime, officers in the 40th Precinct are active in the area but have tried to limit negative interactions with residents to maintain public trust, according to the police.“There has been a significant decrease in the number of interactions with the public while crime has continued to decrease,” according to Lt. John Grimpel, an NYPD spokesman. “We continue to correct conditions while at the same time using discretion and precision.”After the community fallout from Ms. Saavedra’s arrest, the 40th Precinct’s Community Affairs Unit said they were doing outreach to explain what happened and hear community members’ concerns. But that outreach does not always attract the community buy-in the unit needs to change residents’ negative perception of the police.“We put ourselves out there, we make ourselves available to the public, but we don’t receive the participation from the community we would like to see,” said Detective Claudia Mera of the Community Affairs Unit.The unit holds a meeting once every three months and invites area residents to bring up concerns.Still, there is no specific plan to address the incident at La Morada.Members of the community believe the tactics they use have created a schism between law-abiding residents and police officers who treat all residents as a possible threat.“I’ve been working in and with this community for two decades now and police brutality has always been an issue, relationships between the police department and the community have always been an issue,” said Alyshia Galvez, 45, a cultural anthropologist who works in the South Bronx. “The way Yajaira was disrespected is the same way other members of the community are disrespected on a daily basis.”For the South Bronx’s immigrant community, a negative experience with the police is not just an issue of respect and trust. It also brings fears for their immigration status. For Ms. Saavedra, her arrest made that fear palpable.“It doesn’t matter if I live in a sanctuary city,” she said. When the incident occurred, “I was just thinking that this could lead to my deportation.”It all began around 4:30 p.m. last Friday when an undercover officer from the Bronx narcotics unit made a felony purchase of narcotics on the street outside the restaurant and the individual from whom she purchased the drugs began acting aggressive, according to a police spokesman.Noticing what appeared to be an arrest happening outside the restaurant, Ms. Saavedra began filming the incident on her phone, mindful of the stories she hears often from friends and customers of what she describes as prejudiced police practices in the neighborhood.The police do “not have a good relationship with the community,” Ms. Saavedra said. “We see them making unfair arrests, racially profiling us, so I started recording so if that happened it could be exposed.”As the undercover officer entered La Morada for her own safety, another plainclothes officer approached Ms. Saavedra’s brother, Marco Saavedra, and asked him to momentarily close the restaurant to new customers. The siblings instead asked that the officers leave, explaining they did not want to be involved in any police activity.“I could tell the officer was getting frustrated, and that’s when he said he would ‘flip the place upside down’ if we didn’t do what he told us to,” said Mr. Saavedra.The police officers then left the restaurant, returning minutes later with additional officers and handcuffing Ms. Saavedra.Ms. Saavedra was trembling as she described her encounter on Monday morning after community members filled the restaurant offering their support.“La Morada is like the watering hole for this community, it’s our meeting point, and this family is an inspiration for us,” said Vanna Valdez, a 31-year-old resident who has lived in the neighborhood her entire life.Ms. Saavedra’s parents opened La Morada in 2009, after living in the United States for 17 years. When they came in 1992 after crossing the Sonoran Desert, their plan was to stay only one year. But settling into Washington Heights, her mother, Natalia Mendez, was impressed by the schools and the neighborhood so she sent for her children to come join them and begin life anew.When she and her husband, Antonio, opened the restaurant on Willis Avenue it became a neighborhood sensation. Longtime neighbors and resident artists became regulars. Mayor Bill de Blasio stopped by. The five moles Ms. Mendez prepared for her customers soon earned glowing reviews from critics who praised the family’s ability to bring both Oaxacan food and its sense of selfless reciprocity to the neighborhood.But the critical need the restaurant filled — providing neighbors a safe, positive, community-oriented space — also underscored the dangers that surrounded it.The attention Yajaira’s arrest garnered has made the incident a rallying cry for neighbors who have experienced similar interactions with the police and feel their voice is rarely heard.On Friday residents arrived at the precinct to demand her release while others went to La Morada to comfort her family members, who were shocked by the way the officers treated Yajaira.“This is the kind of thing I would see in Mexico not here in the United States, a country that respect laws,” said Antonio Saavedra, Ms. Saavedra’s father. “Where is the law? I don’t see it here right now.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — As the most diverse freshman class in history settles into the House of Representatives, newcomers like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan have been racking up social media followers and soaking up the spotlight, liberal firebrands largely elected to safe Democratic seats.But overlooked in the hallway protests and often glowing news media coverage, a larger group of more centrist Democrats has arrived with a different agenda. And now, they are quietly asserting their influence as the partial government shutdown, which has left them scrambling to explain why 800,000 workers are still without pay, enters its fifth week.The centrists, elected to seats held last year by Republicans, delivered Democrats their House majority, and their re-elections will be critical to keeping the party in power. They include a sizable subset with backgrounds in military, intelligence and national security, and won by promising to work across the aisle and to end dysfunction in Washington. Now they are caught in the most dysfunctional situation of all — a record-breaking shutdown — and they are under pressure from constituents to do something about it.[The Latest: In White House Address, Trump Proposes DACA Deal in Exchange for Wall Funding]This past week, a group of freshmen in Trump-leaning districts convened a private strategy session to discuss how they could press Speaker Nancy Pelosi to reclaim the issue of border security for Democrats and to open the door to negotiations with President Trump. Some also aired their frustrations with Representative Hakeem Jeffries, the chairman of the Democratic caucus, who hosted a small dinner for freshmen from battleground districts.“We have very real credibility on the border security issue,” said Representative Jason Crow, Democrat of Colorado and a former Army ranger. “I did two combat deployments to Afghanistan. Both of those were on the Afghan-Pakistan border interdicting drug and gun smuggling and insurgents coming across from Pakistan and the tribal regions. So I like to think I know a thing or two about border security, and you don’t do it by building walls.”Ms. Pelosi appears ready to listen. When Congress returns to Washington in the coming week, she is expected to bring up legislation that will include an additional $1 billion for border security measures, including 75 additional immigration judges and infrastructure improvements at ports of entry — though no money for Mr. Trump’s cherished border wall.She is also weighing whether to propose a Democratic homeland security bill that could lay the foundation for talks with Mr. Trump — a step that would be a significant shift in strategy for the new majority, which has instead spent the past several weeks emphasizing the shutdown’s emotional and financial toll on unpaid workers.“As someone who worked on preserving the homeland her entire life, I’m ready to talk about homeland security,” said Representative Elissa Slotkin, Democrat of Michigan, a former Pentagon official who also served in the C.I.A., and who organized the strategy session. “I don’t think we need a wall from sea to shining sea. But am I willing to talk about more fencing and more drones and technology and radar and border agents? Absolutely.”Of the roughly 60 new Democrats in Congress, two-thirds, including a tight-knit group of 10 who are either veterans or have national security experience, flipped Republican seats. They represent a very different face of the party: pragmatic moderates who believe they were elected not just to resist the president but also to cooperate with him where they can.“Every single one of them ran on a platform of going out to Washington, shaking things up and getting things done,” said Representative Cheri Bustos of Illinois, a member of Democratic leadership who focuses on electing Democrats in Trump districts. “From the day they were sworn in, the government has been shut down, and they don’t like it and the people they represent don’t like it.”Several of the freshman Democratic centrists, all members of a bipartisan group called the Problem Solvers Caucus, met with Mr. Trump at the White House this past week. Representative Abigail Spanberger of Virginia, a former C.I.A. operative who handled and recruited spies in Europe, said she told Mr. Trump that people in her district, including prison officials and Transportation Security Administration officers, are suffering. She said Mr. Trump did a surprising amount of listening.“I can’t speak for how he interpreted what we said, or how he listened to that information,” she said, “but it was a calm meeting. Most people spoke multiple times, and so I found that to be a positive thing.”But while Democratic leaders understand the eagerness to quickly end the shutdown — a sentiment shared by Democrats across the philosophical spectrum — they are also urging caution, and sticking to their insistence that they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump on border security until the government is fully open.“It’s fair to say that the freshman members of Congress, particularly the veterans and national security professionals, were sent to Washington to solve problems, and they would like to resolve the issue of border security in a bipartisan way,” Mr. Jeffries said. “That is the position of the House Democratic caucus as well, but it’s just a question of timing and the Republican willingness to stop acting like wholly owned subsidiaries of the Trump administration and engage in a meaningful conversation.”After just three weeks in Washington, many of the centrists say the partisan split in the Capitol is even worse than they had imagined, and some have been quietly reaching out to freshman Republicans to see if they can find a way to bridge the divide and end the shutdown.“When I think about being deployed on an aircraft carrier and we are simultaneously launching strikes against terrorist targets in Iraq and Afghanistan and I’m supervising the operation at the nuclear reactors, I don’t turn to one of the operators next to me and say, ‘Are you a Democrat or a Republican?’” said Representative Elaine Luria, Democrat of Virginia, who spent 20 years as a surface warfare officer and nuclear engineer in the Navy. “We’re all very frustrated by the partisanship.”Ms. Slotkin, who was an acting assistant secretary of defense under former President Barack Obama, described what she called a lack of evidence-based planning to secure the border.“If I was back at the Defense Department, we would look at an objective needs assessment for securing the border and we would build a budget to fund that security, and we would be negotiating on it,” she said.But she said that when she asked senior House members if such a document existed, she was told that the White House had its needs assessment and Democrats had theirs — and that neither was “truly objective.”In talking points issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosi’s office ticked off a list of items that the party favors as part of a plan for “strong, smart, effective border security,” including scanning technology at ports of entry to screen for drugs and weapons, drones and radar to spot migrants crossing illegally, filling more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers and building up infrastructure at official border crossings.The “service candidates,” as the veterans and national security professionals call themselves, see themselves taking a leading role in articulating that vision.In addition to discussing the financial toll of the shutdown, Representative Mikie Sherrill of New Jersey, a former federal prosecutor and Navy pilot, said Democrats needed to start underlining the “safety aspect” as well: “While we are arguing over border security, we’re not paying our Customs and Border Patrol agents, so we’re creating less security right now.”But the emphasis on border security may not sit well with their more progressive colleagues, who are more apt to talk about abolishing the Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agency than stopping the flow of drugs at the southern border with Mexico.“I don’t think we need to try to out-border security the Republicans at this point with this president,” said Corbin Trent, the communications director for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. “It makes more sense to focus on ways of creating an immigration system to bring people into this country to help build our economy and our society, rather than to help keep them out.”But Ms. Slotkin said it was time for the voices of those who flipped districts to be heard.“By the numbers, we should and do have a strong voice in the caucus,” she said, adding, “I think Alexandria has done a great job of attracting new young people into the political process and getting people engaged. I think that’s a good thing. Do I think she always represents every freshman? No.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Dave Itzkoff[Looking for TV and movie recommendations? Sign up for our newsletter, Watching.]With the partial government shutdown continuing to stretch on, “Saturday Night Live” proposed its own solution to the standoff: a game show parody.The first new “S.N.L.” of 2019 opened with a special “government shutdown edition” of “Deal or No Deal,” whose only contestant was President Trump — played by Alec Baldwin in his recurring role — looking for a compromise that would end the impasse.As the host Steve Harvey (played by Kenan Thompson) explained to Baldwin, “Earlier today you went on TV and you told the American people that you wanted to make a deal.” He added, “So we decided to do this in the only format that you can understand: a TV game show with women holding briefcases.”After rejecting the immigration deal that Congress offered in December, Baldwin made a counterproposal: “I want $5 billion for my border wall,” he said, “and in exchange I’ll extend DACA, and I’ll release the kids from cages so they can be free-range kids.”Baldwin considered other offers contained in briefcases held by various members of Congress. He started with Nancy Pelosi (Kate McKinnon), whose briefcase contained a note that read, “$1 billion + you say ‘Nancy’s my mommy.’”As Baldwin and McKinnon bickered further, Thompson said, “This is like watching two grandparents fight over the thermostat.”Baldwin next turned to Chuck Schumer (Alex Moffat), who opened a briefcase that said, “Whatever you want.”McKinnon reminded him: “Chuck, we’re not doing that anymore. Remember, we’re projecting strength?” she said. Moffat turned over another card that read, “$15 + Pastrami on Rye.”Baldwin further approached Mitch McConnell (Beck Bennett), Maxine Waters (Leslie Jones) and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (Melissa Villaseñor), who quipped, “Trump and the G.O.P are just terrified of me because I’m under 100 and I know how to use Instagram.”Finally, Baldwin turned to a Clemson football player (Pete Davidson) who wasn’t holding a briefcase but instead carried a White Castle box with a note inside that read, “Hamberders.”Baldwin settled his dispute for a hamburger, and Thompson observed, “Well, I guess that makes as much sense as anything else that’s going on these days.”In other memorable moments from the show:Return of Pete Davidson of the WeekHours before the last “S.N.L.” episode of 2018, Pete Davidson published a troubling Instagram message in which he wrote, in part, “I don’t really want to be on this earth anymore. I’m doing my best to stay here for you but I actually don’t know how much longer I can last.” (The New York Police Department subsequently sent an officer to NBC to check on Davidson, who has talked about being given a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder.)This week, Davidson appeared in several sketches as well as this “Weekend Update” deskside segment where, at first, it appeared he was going to address last month’s worrisome events. “As you know,” Davidson said, “I’ve had a really crazy month, and I want to talk about something that really matters to me.”Colin Jost asked, “Mental health?”Davidson answered, “No, the new Clint Eastwood movie ‘The Mule.’”Davidson then brought out John Mulaney, the comedian and “S.N.L.” alumnus, and the two of them then really did make a lot of jokes about “The Mule.”But at one point in the bit, Mulaney said, “I’ve been spending time with Pete, to try to show him that you can have a life in comedy that is not insane; a sober domestic life.”Davidson replied, “Yeah, and after observing John’s life, I publicly threatened suicide.”After a few laughs, Mulaney turned to Davidson and said, “You are loved by many. And we are glad you are O.K.”“Marvelous Mrs. Maisel” Parody of the WeekYou can’t have an “S.N.L.” episode hosted by Rachel Brosnahan without poking a little fun at her hit Amazon series, “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel.” In this take on the show, Leslie Jones plays Rita Mae Johnson, a floor-sweeper at the Gaslight Café who, with a little encouragement from Mrs. Maisel, becomes an exceptionally foul-mouthed stand-up comic named “The Raunchiest Miss Rita.”We can’t reproduce any of her jokes here, but we will endorse this sketch’s impersonations of the “Mrs. Maisel” co-stars Alex Borstein (Aidy Bryant) and Tony Shalhoub (Kyle Mooney).Weekend Update Jokes of the WeekAt the “Weekend Update” desk, the anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che continued to riff on the shutdown and a BuzzFeed News report that was disputed by the office of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.Jost:President Trump, the man who said he would own the shutdown, clearly does not care about the people who are working unpaid, who can’t afford basic things like food. But why would he care? He’s a billionaire who controls all the hamburgers in the world. Then after Scrooge McDonald’s was done hosting his burger orgy, he went on television today and made a new proposal to end the shutdown. And that proposal was basically, “You give me $5.7 billion and I’ll give you back the Dreamers.”Am I the only one who thinks that sounds like a hostage negotiation? I can’t wait to see his written proposal. [A ransom note appears on screen.] By the way, these protections he’s offering aren’t even real laws, they’re just vague promises he’s making. And I trust a promise from Donald Trump as much as I trust R. Kelly in a Claire’s boutique.Che:Yeah, I agree. That speech sucked. First of all, he didn’t even say hi. He just started talking, like we was already talking. I found that to be rude. Then he said he’s going to stop half the crime and 90 percent of the heroin with something called slats. Which as you can see is a wall without all the wall. Hear that, Mexico? Good luck trying to crack this code. What are you going to do, pass your drugs and small children through those giant slats? Imagine you’re a Coast Guard or TSA or any of the thousands of government workers that are actually stopping drugs and crime from getting into this country, and you haven’t been paid in a month. And the president gets on TV — doesn’t say sorry, doesn’t even say hi — but instead, he’s like, “Hey, what do you all think about slats?”Jost:BuzzFeed published a story that said Robert Mueller had evidence of Trump committing an impeachable crime. But the details were so sketchy that even Mueller’s team had to be like, “Sorry, fake news.” How disappointing was that? You know how many suburban moms had to retract their group texts to the family reading, “We got him!!!” The crazy part is that the White House is now celebrating that Mueller disputed only this one aspect of the investigation, while there’s still like 100 other crimes still on the table. If you got tested for every STD, and your doctor said, “Well, the good news is, you don’t have chlamydia,” you wouldn’t be like, “That’s all I need to hear, doc — no condoms for this guy.”Che:Look, BuzzFeed, I think it’s great — we all think it’s great that you all want to help. But this isn’t really what we need from you. Y’all are BuzzFeed, you do memes and lists. Everybody’s got that aunt who has roaches, and every Thanksgiving, she’s like, “Hey, y’all, what should I bring?” And we’re like, “Uh, ice. You bring the ice, because we don’t want to be picking raisins out of the turkey.” That’s you, BuzzFeed, you bring the Ice. As Dr. King once said, “Don’t go chasing waterfalls, please stick to the rivers and the lakes that you’re used to.” There’s no shame in that. We all play a role. Look, sometimes, kids come up to me and they’ll say, “Michael Che, I get all my news from you.” And I say, “Don’t do that.” I bring the ice.Weekend Update Deskside Bit of the WeekPlaying Elizabeth Warren, the Democratic Senator from Massachusetts and 2020 presidential hopeful, Kate McKinnon sought to establish herself as a fighter: “I’m like if ‘Monday Night Raw’ was hosted by Terry Gross,” she said. McKinnon also took potshots at potential Democratic rivals like Kirsten Gillibrand (whom she called “Kirsten Stole-My-Brand”) and rued her decision to take a DNA test to prove that her family had origins in the Cherokee and Delaware tribes:“I did the DNA test,” she said, “and the test came back 100 percent bad idea. Who knew race science wasn’t a good PR strategy?”Fake Commercial of the WeekIf you’ve kept up with the conversation around a recent Gillette advertisement that asks consumers to give more thought to patterns of toxic male behavior and turns the razor company’s slogan into a moral question — “Is this the best a man can get?” — you’ll have the proper context for this “S.N.L.” parody: a fake commercial for Kool-Aid, in which men engage in toxic conduct — say, bursting into a business meeting and interrupting a female colleague — while under the influence of the popular flavored drink. As a solemn voice-over reminds viewers, “The Kool-Aid boys watching today will be the Kool-Aid men of tomorrow.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanSAN ANTONIO — Donald J. Trump got Brenda Hernandez’s hopes up in 2016 when he indicated that he had a heart for young undocumented immigrants like her, who were brought into the country by their parents. But her hopes were dashed when Mr. Trump became president and ordered an end to the federal program known as DACA that shields her from deportation.After the president’s latest announcement on Saturday — that he was proposing to end the standoff over the partial government shutdown by, among other things, temporarily extending that shield — Ms. Hernandez just shrugged.“I don’t trust Trump — I don’t believe him,” she said as she hoisted her 3-year-old son onto a swivel chair at the D & H Beauty Salon in San Antonio. The blue-collar shop, with rows of wooden chairs in the waiting area, is a favorite among immigrants in the city. But in the hours after Mr. Trump’s White House address, his latest offer of an immigration deal was finding little support.[Read: In Trump’s Immigration Announcement, A Compromise Snubbed All Around]In exchange for $5.7 billion to erect a barrier along the border with Mexico, Mr. Trump said he would agree to extend protection for three years for the roughly 800,000 immigrants who benefit from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which covers people brought into the country illegally as children. The president held out the hope of similar relief for 300,000 immigrants living in the United States with temporary protected status, known as T.P.S., after fleeing earthquakes and other disasters in their own countries.“I am here today to break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward to end the government shutdown and solve the crisis along the southern border,” Mr. Trump said, calling his offer “a common-sense compromise both parties can embrace.”But many of the clients waiting their turn for a $6 haircut or shave at the D & H salon, in a strip mall in the northern part of the city, greeted Mr. Trump’s announcement with skepticism, if not downright indifference. Most expressed deep reservations about a border wall, deeming it a waste of money.Eliseo Castillo, 60, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, said an extension of DACA’s protections from deportation, and its offer of work permits, could benefit his 26-year-old son. He said his son had relied on the program for years to get a driver’s license and a job and to live without the fear that even a minor misstep, like driving with a broken taillight, could land him in deportation proceedings.But Mr. Castillo, a construction contractor who relies on a steady flow of workers from Latin America, said he wondered what would happen to his business if a reinforced border wall halted the flow of workers. He said he is already having trouble hiring enough laborers.“The fact is, there is not an American who wants to mix cement, do carpentry and heavy work,” said Mr. Castillo, who employs 18 people to lay down foundations for houses in San Antonio’s expansive subdivisions.Mr. Castillo, who wears cowboy boots and bluejeans and keeps his silver hair in a braid, has called Texas home since the 1980s. But he harbors no illusions about legalizing his status, at least as long as Mr. Trump holds the highest office in the land.Waiting his turn for a haircut in paint-splattered trousers that gave away how he earns his living, Jose Ramos, 63, a naturalized American born in Mexico, said he had no faith that Mr. Trump, whose “favorite sport is blaming immigrants for everything, which is not right,” would ever keep his word.“This isn’t a deal,” Mr. Ramos said. “Trump is just offering to give back what he already took away.”Democrats in Washington have criticized the president for offering to extend DACA and T.P.S. protections, when it was he who had ordered those protections revoked. Some have called the offer a nonstarter because it did not include any long-term solutions, like a path to permanent legal status or citizenship for DACA recipients, who are known as Dreamers.But many people in San Antonio never had much faith that such solutions were even possible with Mr. Trump as president.Indeed, some in the city wonder how much the president knows about the border.Speaking with reporters on Saturday, Mr. Trump cited the city as a place that had benefited from building a border barrier. “You look at San Antonio, you look at so many different places, they go from one of the most unsafe cities in the country to one of the safest cities, immediately, immediately,” he said.But San Antonio is 150 miles from the border, and has no wall.Alicia Alaniz, 47, the stylist working at station 7 in the salon, rolled her eyes and said that the only thing she could agree with in Mr. Trump’s statement was the notion that the immigration system was “broken.”“We need immigration reform — it would benefit the country and everyone who lives here,” said Ms. Alaniz, a legal permanent resident who emigrated from Mexico. People just want to work the right way, and support this country that has brought them many blessings.”President Obama introduced DACA in June 2012 as a temporary reprieve for young unauthorized immigrants, at a time when Congress was in a stalemate over immigration policy. To qualify for DACA protection, immigrants must have lived in the United States for much of their lives and meet certain other requirements, like passing a background check and completing high school.On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump vowed to eliminate any program that Mr. Obama had created by executive action, including DACA, a stance that generated deep anxiety among the Dreamers.But in December 2016, shortly after winning election, Mr. Trump softened his position.“We’re going to work something out that’s going to make people happy and proud,” he told Time magazine. “They got brought here at a very young age, they’ve worked here, they’ve gone to school here. Some were good students. Some have wonderful jobs. And they’re in never-never land because they don’t know what’s going to happen.”Once in office, however, Mr. Trump appointed one of the fiercest opponents of the DACA program, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, as his attorney general. Mr. Sessions rescinded DACA in September 2017, but the action was challenged in court and has yet to take full effect, while the courts decide the program’s fate.Without work permits provided under the program, young immigrants would face cascading, and possibly dire, consequences: They would lose their jobs, driver’s licenses and the chance to attend college at in-state tuition rates.Friday was the last day the Supreme Court could accept an appeal and schedule any arguments on the DACA litigation in its current session, and the court let the day pass without addressing the Trump administration’s bid to kill the program. That ensures that DACA will survive at least until the court’s next session, which begins in October.When the administration made its bid to end the program, “I worried about what I would do; I was so sad,” said Ms. Hernandez, who works these days for a casual dining chain known as Zoe’s Kitchen. But with the issue tied up in the courts, she said she has simply had to get on with her life. “Now, I don’t even think about it,” she said.Her DACA permit expires in a year.An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a salon in San Antonio that is popular with immigrants. It is the D & H Beauty Salon, not H & D.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — Immigrant advocates denounced it as cruel. The conservative right howled that it was amnesty.What President Trump billed on Saturday as a compromise to end the country’s longest government shutdown pleased neither the Democratic congressional leaders whose buy-in he needs to strike a deal nor the core supporters whose backing has always been at the heart of his insistence on a border wall.Instead, in offering temporary protections for about one million immigrants at risk of deportation in exchange for funding for a wall, Mr. Trump did something rarely seen during his presidency. He tried to reach beyond his base of supporters — which polls have begun to show is losing patience with him as the partial shutdown drags into its fifth week — and speak to a broader swath of Americans.The Saturday afternoon speech from the West Wing was an attempt by Mr. Trump to, at the very least, shift the narrative of the past several weeks and show that rather than spoiling for a longer shutdown fight or making unreasonable demands, he was looking for a broadly acceptable way out of a morass he once boasted he was proud to wade into.“I think you could tell by the president’s remarks today,” Vice President Mike Pence said, “that we’re reaching out.”Yet in seeking to inch toward the center, Mr. Trump alienated portions of his hard-right base, the core supporters he most depends on and the group he and his closest aides have most feared losing. That raised the possibility that, in his zeal to get out of an intractable situation, he may have landed himself in the worst of all worlds, without a clear solution or the support of his most ardent followers.[Read: Trump’s Deal Meets With Skepticism Among Immigrants in Texas]The tensions and anger over the policy have been quietly playing out in the West Wing as well, as Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, fended off Stephen Miller, the architect of much of Mr. Trump’s immigration agenda. Mr. Kushner has long been a proponent of protections for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, while Mr. Miller has pressed for aggressive measures to crack down on both legal and illegal immigration.In recent days, as White House officials had been working out the details of the compromise, Mr. Miller intervened to narrow the universe of immigrants who would receive protection, according to people familiar with the internal discussions who described them on the condition of anonymity.While the original idea had been to include protections for as many as 1.8 million undocumented immigrants eligible for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program known as DACA that protected those illegally brought to the United States as children, Mr. Trump ultimately proposed shielding only the 700,000 who are enrolled.Mr. Kushner conceded in a briefing after the president’s speech that he did not see the proposal as a solution for the DACA program, which Mr. Trump moved to rescind in 2017.“At this moment in time,” Mr. Kushner said, “this is a good path forward.”Many conservatives did not share that view.“Trump proposes amnesty,” the conservative commentator Ann Coulter said on Twitter. “We voted for Trump and got Jeb!” she added, referring to Jeb Bush, who challenged Mr. Trump for the Republican nomination in 2016 and supported a broad immigration overhaul that would have given undocumented immigrants a path to legal status.Still, in the eyes of many White House officials, the prospect that Mr. Trump could use the proposal to shift blame for the shutdown and pressure Democrats to end the impasse was worth trying. Mr. Pence argued on Saturday that the speech was a “sincere effort” by Mr. Trump to break the logjam, and he and other White House officials suggested that the measure could attract enough support to succeed from centrist Democrats fed up with the shutdown and willing to side with Republicans.But such a coalition did not appear to be forming, and courting one bears considerable risk for a president who is most comfortable when he is defying convention, eschewing compromise and being hailed as a hero by supporters who often equate bipartisan deal making with weak-kneed capitulation.The vast majority of Democrats knocked the approach. While many of them have pressed for measures to protect DACA recipients and immigrants living in the United States under Temporary Protected Status enacted when their countries were destabilized by war or catastrophe, most regard the proposal he put forth on Saturday as woefully inadequate. It offers only three years of protections for the DACA recipients and those who hold T.P.S., which the Trump administration has also moved to end for several countries.“This is not an amnesty bill,” Mr. Pence said. “There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal.”That was high on Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s list of reasons to call the plan “unacceptable.”That is unlikely to matter to the president. Despite saying publicly last month that he would be proud to own a shutdown over the wall, and privately displaying confidence that his base would stick with him through the fight, Mr. Trump has been dismayed to find otherwise in recent days.An NPR poll released last week showed Mr. Trump’s approval ratings down and the first cracks in backing among critical supporters, including whites without a college education and white evangelicals.Such pressure from what he has called the forgotten men and women who elected him and chant “Build! The! Wall!” at his arena rallies has swayed Mr. Trump before, including last year, when the conservative news site Breitbart branded him “Amnesty Don” for considering a similar deal that would have provided $25 billion in wall funding for a path to legal status for those the DACA program was created to help. The president ultimately abandoned that agreement, concerned about angering his base and after Mr. Miller and others advised him he should insist on additional immigration restrictions.On Saturday night, Breitbart panned Mr. Trump’s latest idea with the headline “Three-Year Amnesty, Most of Border Remains Open.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanSAN ANTONIO — Donald J. Trump got Brenda Hernandez’s hopes up in 2016 when he indicated that he had a heart for young undocumented immigrants like her, who were brought into the country by their parents. But her hopes were dashed when Mr. Trump became president and ordered an end to the federal program known as DACA that shields her from deportation.After the president’s latest announcement on Saturday — that he was proposing to end the standoff over the partial government shutdown by, among other things, temporarily extending that shield — Ms. Hernandez just shrugged.“I don’t trust Trump — I don’t believe him,” she said as she hoisted her 3-year-old son onto a swivel chair at the D & H Beauty Salon in San Antonio. The blue-collar shop, with rows of wooden chairs in the waiting area, is a favorite among immigrants in the city. But in the hours after Mr. Trump’s White House address, his latest offer of an immigration deal was finding little support.[Read: In Trump’s Immigration Announcement, A Compromise Snubbed All Around]In exchange for $5.7 billion to erect a barrier along the border with Mexico, Mr. Trump said he would agree to extend protection for three years for the roughly 800,000 immigrants who benefit from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which covers people brought into the country illegally as children. The president held out the hope of similar relief for 300,000 immigrants living in the United States with temporary protected status, known as T.P.S., after fleeing earthquakes and other disasters in their own countries.“I am here today to break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward to end the government shutdown and solve the crisis along the southern border,” Mr. Trump said, calling his offer “a common-sense compromise both parties can embrace.”But many of the clients waiting their turn for a $6 haircut or shave at the D & H salon, in a strip mall in the northern part of the city, greeted Mr. Trump’s announcement with skepticism, if not downright indifference. Most expressed deep reservations about a border wall, deeming it a waste of money.Eliseo Castillo, 60, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, said an extension of DACA’s protections from deportation, and its offer of work permits, could benefit his 26-year-old son. He said his son had relied on the program for years to get a driver’s license and a job and to live without the fear that even a minor misstep, like driving with a broken taillight, could land him in deportation proceedings.But Mr. Castillo, a construction contractor who relies on a steady flow of workers from Latin America, said he wondered what would happen to his business if a reinforced border wall halted the flow of workers. He said he is already having trouble hiring enough laborers.“The fact is, there is not an American who wants to mix cement, do carpentry and heavy work,” said Mr. Castillo, who employs 18 people to lay down foundations for houses in San Antonio’s expansive subdivisions.Mr. Castillo, who wears cowboy boots and bluejeans and keeps his silver hair in a braid, has called Texas home since the 1980s. But he harbors no illusions about legalizing his status, at least as long as Mr. Trump holds the highest office in the land.Waiting his turn for a haircut in paint-splattered trousers that gave away how he earns his living, Jose Ramos, 63, a naturalized American born in Mexico, said he had no faith that Mr. Trump, whose “favorite sport is blaming immigrants for everything, which is not right,” would ever keep his word.“This isn’t a deal,” Mr. Ramos said. “Trump is just offering to give back what he already took away.”Democrats in Washington have criticized the president for offering to extend DACA and T.P.S. protections, when it was he who had ordered those protections revoked. Some have called the offer a nonstarter because it did not include any long-term solutions, like a path to permanent legal status or citizenship for DACA recipients, who are known as Dreamers.But many people in San Antonio never had much faith that such solutions were even possible with Mr. Trump as president.Indeed, some in the city wonder how much the president knows about the border.Speaking with reporters on Saturday, Mr. Trump cited the city as a place that had benefited from building a border barrier. “You look at San Antonio, you look at so many different places, they go from one of the most unsafe cities in the country to one of the safest cities, immediately, immediately,” he said.But San Antonio is 150 miles from the border, and has no wall.Alicia Alaniz, 47, the stylist working at station 7 in the salon, rolled her eyes and said that the only thing she could agree with in Mr. Trump’s statement was the notion that the immigration system was “broken.”“We need immigration reform — it would benefit the country and everyone who lives here,” said Ms. Alaniz, a legal permanent resident who emigrated from Mexico. People just want to work the right way, and support this country that has brought them many blessings.”President Obama introduced DACA in June 2012 as a temporary reprieve for young unauthorized immigrants, at a time when Congress was in a stalemate over immigration policy. To qualify for DACA protection, immigrants must have lived in the United States for much of their lives and meet certain other requirements, like passing a background check and completing high school.On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump vowed to eliminate any program that Mr. Obama had created by executive action, including DACA, a stance that generated deep anxiety among the Dreamers.But in December 2016, shortly after winning election, Mr. Trump softened his position.“We’re going to work something out that’s going to make people happy and proud,” he told Time magazine. “They got brought here at a very young age, they’ve worked here, they’ve gone to school here. Some were good students. Some have wonderful jobs. And they’re in never-never land because they don’t know what’s going to happen.”Once in office, however, Mr. Trump appointed one of the fiercest opponents of the DACA program, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, as his attorney general. Mr. Sessions rescinded DACA in September 2017, but the action was challenged in court and has yet to take full effect, while the courts decide the program’s fate.Without work permits provided under the program, young immigrants would face cascading, and possibly dire, consequences: They would lose their jobs, driver’s licenses and the chance to attend college at in-state tuition rates.Friday was the last day the Supreme Court could accept an appeal and schedule any arguments on the DACA litigation in its current session, and the court let the day pass without addressing the Trump administration’s bid to kill the program. That ensures that DACA will survive at least until the court’s next session, which begins in October.When the administration made its bid to end the program, “I worried about what I would do; I was so sad,” said Ms. Hernandez, who works these days for a casual dining chain known as Zoe’s Kitchen. But with the issue tied up in the courts, she said she has simply had to get on with her life. “Now, I don’t even think about it,” she said.Her DACA permit expires in a year.An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a salon in San Antonio that is popular with immigrants. It is the D & H Beauty Salon, not H & D.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — Immigrant advocates denounced it as cruel. The conservative right howled that it was amnesty.What President Trump billed on Saturday as a compromise to end the country’s longest government shutdown pleased neither the Democratic congressional leaders whose buy-in he needs to strike a deal nor the core supporters whose backing has always been at the heart of his insistence on a border wall.Instead, in offering temporary protections for about one million immigrants at risk of deportation in exchange for funding for a wall, Mr. Trump did something rarely seen during his presidency. He tried to reach beyond his base of supporters — which polls have begun to show is losing patience with him as the partial shutdown drags into its fifth week — and speak to a broader swath of Americans.The Saturday afternoon speech from the West Wing was an attempt by Mr. Trump to, at the very least, shift the narrative of the past several weeks and show that rather than spoiling for a longer shutdown fight or making unreasonable demands, he was looking for a broadly acceptable way out of a morass he once boasted he was proud to wade into.“I think you could tell by the president’s remarks today,” Vice President Mike Pence said, “that we’re reaching out.”Yet in seeking to inch toward the center, Mr. Trump alienated portions of his hard-right base, the core supporters he most depends on and the group he and his closest aides have most feared losing. That raised the possibility that, in his zeal to get out of an intractable situation, he may have landed himself in the worst of all worlds, without a clear solution or the support of his most ardent followers.[Read: Trump’s Deal Meets With Skepticism Among Immigrants in Texas]The tensions and anger over the policy have been quietly playing out in the West Wing as well, as Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, fended off Stephen Miller, the architect of much of Mr. Trump’s immigration agenda. Mr. Kushner has long been a proponent of protections for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, while Mr. Miller has pressed for aggressive measures to crack down on both legal and illegal immigration.In recent days, as White House officials had been working out the details of the compromise, Mr. Miller intervened to narrow the universe of immigrants who would receive protection, according to people familiar with the internal discussions who described them on the condition of anonymity.While the original idea had been to include protections for as many as 1.8 million undocumented immigrants eligible for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program known as DACA that protected those illegally brought to the United States as children, Mr. Trump ultimately proposed shielding only the 700,000 who are enrolled.Mr. Kushner conceded in a briefing after the president’s speech that he did not see the proposal as a solution for the DACA program, which Mr. Trump moved to rescind in 2017.“At this moment in time,” Mr. Kushner said, “this is a good path forward.”Many conservatives did not share that view.“Trump proposes amnesty,” the conservative commentator Ann Coulter said on Twitter. “We voted for Trump and got Jeb!” she added, referring to Jeb Bush, who challenged Mr. Trump for the Republican nomination in 2016 and supported a broad immigration overhaul that would have given undocumented immigrants a path to legal status.Still, in the eyes of many White House officials, the prospect that Mr. Trump could use the proposal to shift blame for the shutdown and pressure Democrats to end the impasse was worth trying. Mr. Pence argued on Saturday that the speech was a “sincere effort” by Mr. Trump to break the logjam, and he and other White House officials suggested that the measure could attract enough support to succeed from centrist Democrats fed up with the shutdown and willing to side with Republicans.But such a coalition did not appear to be forming, and courting one bears considerable risk for a president who is most comfortable when he is defying convention, eschewing compromise and being hailed as a hero by supporters who often equate bipartisan deal making with weak-kneed capitulation.The vast majority of Democrats knocked the approach. While many of them have pressed for measures to protect DACA recipients and immigrants living in the United States under Temporary Protected Status enacted when their countries were destabilized by war or catastrophe, most regard the proposal he put forth on Saturday as woefully inadequate. It offers only three years of protections for the DACA recipients and those who hold T.P.S., which the Trump administration has also moved to end for several countries.“This is not an amnesty bill,” Mr. Pence said. “There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal.”That was high on Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s list of reasons to call the plan “unacceptable.”That is unlikely to matter to the president. Despite saying publicly last month that he would be proud to own a shutdown over the wall, and privately displaying confidence that his base would stick with him through the fight, Mr. Trump has been dismayed to find otherwise in recent days.An NPR poll released last week showed Mr. Trump’s approval ratings down and the first cracks in backing among critical supporters, including whites without a college education and white evangelicals.Such pressure from what he has called the forgotten men and women who elected him and chant “Build! The! Wall!” at his arena rallies has swayed Mr. Trump before, including last year, when the conservative news site Breitbart branded him “Amnesty Don” for considering a similar deal that would have provided $25 billion in wall funding for a path to legal status for those the DACA program was created to help. The president ultimately abandoned that agreement, concerned about angering his base and after Mr. Miller and others advised him he should insist on additional immigration restrictions.On Saturday night, Breitbart panned Mr. Trump’s latest idea with the headline “Three-Year Amnesty, Most of Border Remains Open.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — President Trump attacked Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Sunday for rejecting his proposal to end the partial government shutdown, as he and Republican leaders in Congress sought to put Democrats on defense, a place they have rarely been during the shutdown stalemate.In a series of morning tweets, Mr. Trump said Ms. Pelosi had behaved “so irrationally” in spurning his offer to restore the temporary protections he took away from some undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border wall. He also pushed back against conservative critics who called the plan amnesty for immigrants who came to the United States illegally.Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, plans to bring up legislation as early as Tuesday that would wrap Mr. Trump’s proposal into a broader package that would include billions of dollars in disaster relief and immediately reopen the government, an aide said. The move is intended to ratchet up pressure on Democrats, who have insisted they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump until the shutdown is over.“President Trump has put forward a serious and reasonable offer to reform parts of our broken immigration system and reopen government,” Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republican leader, said on Twitter. “The moment now turns to Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer. The country is watching.”But there was little indication from Democrats, who have denounced Mr. Trump’s plan as “hostage taking,” that they would abandon that position.“If he opens up the government, we’ll discuss whatever he offers, but hostage taking should not work,” Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, told reporters in New York on Sunday, adding, “It’s very hard to negotiate when a gun is held to your head.”With the shutdown now in its fifth week, and 800,000 federal employees still furloughed or working without pay, pressure is rising on both Republicans and Democrats to end it. If it lasts until Friday, Congress will be forced to reckon with another grim milestone: Affected workers will miss their second paycheck.[Read: Trump’s Deal Meets With Skepticism Among Immigrants in Texas]As Republicans go on offense in the Senate, Democrats will stay on offense in the House, where they have already passed a string of government funding bills that Mr. McConnell — who has largely remained on the sidelines during the shutdown debate — has refused to take up. On Wednesday, Ms. Pelosi plans to bring up a package of six bills to fund shuttered government agencies, ignoring Mr. Trump’s requests.The measures gained approval last year from Republicans on the House and Senate Appropriations Committees; in effect, Ms. Pelosi will be daring Republicans to vote against their own legislation. Democrats will also begin talking more about their own vision for border security — a shift in strategy for a party that has focused mostly on the economic and personal toll of the shutdown.Amid the posturing, however, there were some hints that Mr. Trump’s proposal, which he unveiled in a 13-minute White House address on Saturday, might open the door to talks that could result in a deal. Vice President Mike Pence, in an appearance on “Fox News Sunday,” suggested that Mr. Trump’s proposal might be amended on the Senate floor.“Well, of course,” Mr. Pence said, when the host, Chris Wallace, asked if he was open to negotiation. “The legislative process is a negotiation.”And Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, a centrist Democrat, described Mr. Trump’s plan as “a starting point” on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” though he added, “You’ve got to start by reopening the government.”The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected.Polls show the public largely blames Mr. Trump for the shutdown, and his advisers have been searching for an exit strategy. Last week, Mr. McConnell told Mr. Trump, Mr. Pence and White House advisers that he needed the president to put forth a public offer so he could bring legislation to the floor.“McConnell’s view of shutdowns is when you’re in one, it’s a great opportunity for both sides to get things,” said Scott Jennings, a Republican strategist and former McConnell aide who remains close to him. “And what I think is dumbfounding everyone here is: Why aren’t the Democrats treating it as a situation where they could get something? The president has opened the door for them to get something, so let’s talk.”Throughout his administration, Mr. Trump has sought to limit both legal and illegal immigration. Last year, he moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, which shielded from deportation hundreds of thousands of young unauthorized immigrants known as Dreamers. He also revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., for some undocumented immigrants from Latin American and African countries.In the plan he unveiled on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore the DACA and T.P.S. protections for three years. But Democrats say that is a nonstarter, because it does not offer a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers, and because Mr. Trump is simply giving back protections that he himself took away.The McConnell aide, Don Stewart, said the Republican legislative package would include seven appropriations bills that would fund government agencies that have been partially closed for a month.“The legislation that the majority leader will bring to the floor this week would both reopen the remaining portions of the government, fund disaster relief, fund border security and address immigration issues that both Republicans and Democrats would like to address — all in one bill,” Mr. Stewart said.Mr. McConnell would need votes from all Republicans and seven Democrats for the package to pass. But only a handful of Democrats in Republican-leaning states might feel pressured enough to cross the aisle. A spokesman for one of them, Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, said Mr. Manchin — who just won re-election — would remain undecided on the Republican proposal until he saw it.In broadening the package beyond Mr. Trump’s plan, Mr. McConnell may be trying to pick up additional Democrats — especially those who are eager to vote for disaster relief.“He’s starting to move the pieces around to see what’s going to fly and what’s not going to make it,” said Jim Manley, who was a top aide to Harry Reid, the former Democratic leader from Nevada. “He’s trying to put the pressure back on Democrats, and he’s trying to see what the possibilities of a deal are by putting a larger package there. He’s trying to see how large the package has to be to bring Democrats on board.”But Mr. Trump seemed to be holding fast. He retweeted a series of endorsements of his proposal from Republican lawmakers on Sunday evening, and earlier in the day, he took aim at Ms. Pelosi and pushed back against conservative critics who have described the plan as amnesty for undocumented immigrants.“Nancy Pelosi and some of the Democrats turned down my offer yesterday before I even got up to speak,” Mr. Trump wrote. “They don’t see crime & drugs, they only see 2020 — which they are not going to win. Best economy! They should do the right thing for the Country & allow people to go back to work.”Mr. Trump went on: “Nancy Pelosi has behaved so irrationally & has gone so far to the left that she has now officially become a Radical Democrat. She is so petrified of the ‘lefties’ in her party that she has lost control...And by the way, clean up the streets in San Francisco, they are disgusting!”And to his conservative critics, Mr. Trump wrote: “No, Amnesty is not a part of my offer. It is a 3 year extension of DACA. Amnesty will be used only on a much bigger deal, whether on immigration or something else. Likewise there will be no big push to remove the 11,000,000 plus people who are here illegally — but be careful Nancy!”Ms. Pelosi took to Twitter to strike back. “@realdonaldtrump, 800,000 Americans are going without pay. Re-open the government, let workers get their paychecks and then we can discuss how we can come together to protect the border,” she wrote, using the hashtag #EndTheShutdown.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — President Trump, facing a growing public backlash over the partial government shutdown, shifted course on Saturday and offered Democrats a deal: temporary protections for roughly 700,000 young undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a wall along the southern border.But the proposal, which Mr. Trump unveiled in a 13-minute address from the White House, appeared dead on arrival in the Capitol. Speaker Nancy Pelosi rejected it even before Mr. Trump spoke, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, denounced the offer as “not a compromise but more hostage taking.”With the shutdown entering its fifth week and polls showing a majority of the public blaming Mr. Trump, the president’s advisers have been searching for an exit strategy. Saturday’s speech grew out of talks that Vice President Mike Pence and the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, have had in recent days with lawmakers including Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader.The proposal was Mr. Trump’s first public offer to Democrats since the partial shutdown began nearly a month ago. It came after an acrimonious week of tit-for-tat politics, in which Ms. Pelosi told the president he could not deliver his State of the Union address in the Capitol until the shutdown was over, and the president retaliated by grounding a plane that was supposed to take Ms. Pelosi on a fact-finding mission to Afghanistan.In casting the plan as a compromise, the president sought to shift pressure to Democrats — who have repeatedly refused to give Mr. Trump any money for his border wall — to end the shutdown. But Democrats continued to insist they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump over border security until the government reopens.Over the course of his administration, Mr. Trump has repeatedly sought to curb both legal and illegal immigration. He has revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., which offers crucial protections for immigrants, for people from some Latin American and African countries. And he has moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, an Obama-era program that shielded the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation.In the deal he outlined on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore T.P.S. protection for 300,000 people, and said he would allow 700,000 Dreamers to keep their protections for three more years in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border barrier.“That is our plan,” Mr. Trump said. “Border security, DACA, T.P.S. Many other things. Straightforward, fair, reasonable and common sense with lots of compromise.” The proposal, Mr. Trump added, was intended to “break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward.”The speech was the second time during the shutdown that the president addressed the nation about the immigration crisis. But unlike his first address, a prime-time broadcast from the Oval Office that leaned heavily on dark messaging about the dangers of crime and illegal drugs flowing across the border, Mr. Trump seemed on Saturday to soften his tone.He paired the address with his first naturalization ceremony at the White House, a move intended to underscore the idea that he supports legal immigration. And his language was markedly different; instead of insisting on the “big beautiful wall” he promised during his 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump took care to use the word “barrier” as well — and seemed to pare back his vision for it.Calling the wall “a powerful and beautifully designed see-through steel barrier on our southern border,” Mr. Trump said: “This is not a 2,000-mile concrete structure from sea to sea. These are steel barriers in high priority locations. Much of the border is already protected by natural barriers such as mountains and water.”Mr. Trump noted that he had adopted some Democratic proposals on border security. The president proposed $800 million for humanitarian assistance and $805 million for drug detection technology, in addition to funding for 2,750 more border agents and law enforcement officials and 75 new immigration judge teams.In her talking points, issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosi said her party favored “new drug, weapons and contraband scanning technology at official ports of entry,” and “filling the more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers.” Ms. Pelosi also intends to bring up legislation in the coming days that includes an additional $1 billion for border security, including $563 million for 75 new immigration judges and support staff.Even so, Democrats roundly criticized the president’s plan. They were particularly incensed that Mr. Trump’s offer extended protections to Dreamers and T.P.S. recipients that he himself revoked. And they said the deal was a nonstarter because it did not offer any permanent protections for Dreamers.“I think it’s simply more fake promises raising false hopes,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said. “It will fool few Americans because it’s neither serious nor credible as a real remedy for Dreamers.”Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.Some on the right also pushed back, describing the proposal as amnesty. James Carafano, a national security expert at the Heritage Foundation who worked on Mr. Trump’s transition, was among the critics. “Amnesty encourages further illegal immigration, incentivizes the tragedy of human trafficking and undermines our citizens’ confidence in the rule of law,” he said.Mr. Pence, briefing reporters after Mr. Trump’s remarks, said the speech reflected a painstaking process of listening to lawmakers, including rank-and-file Democrats who made it clear they believed that protections for DACA and T.P.S. recipients must be included in a border security deal.And he pushed back forcefully against critics like Mr. Carafano who said the measure amounted to an unacceptable amnesty for undocumented immigrants.“There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal,” Mr. Pence said.But that was one reason many Democrats considered it unacceptable. Other senior administration officials made it clear that part of Mr. Trump’s strategy was to try to drive a wedge within the party between those who want to hold out for a much more generous solution and those who may feel enough political pressure to end the shutdown that they will feel obliged to support it.Noting that Tuesday is the deadline for the government to reopen in time to prevent federal employees from going a second consecutive pay period without a check, Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, said Senate Democrats had a tricky decision to make. He also noted that the president’s ability to declare a national emergency was “absolutely” still a tool available to Mr. Trump to find funds to build the wall if a legislative agreement could not be reached.Now it will be up to Mr. McConnell to put legislation incorporating Mr. Trump’s proposal on the Senate floor.Mr. McConnell — who has insisted he will not put any legislation on the floor unless the president will sign it — spoke to Mr. Trump, Mr. Kushner and Mr. Pence on Thursday night about finding a way forward.Mr. McConnell told the president that before he could bring up legislation on the Senate floor, he needed a “public reassurance” that Mr. Trump would sign it, one person close to the talks said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to describe sensitive discussions.The president’s proposal “strikes a fair compromise by incorporating priorities from both sides of the aisle,” Mr. McConnell said in a statement after Mr. Trump’s speech.If Mr. McConnell does indeed put a bill on the floor, as the president said he would, Senate Democrats will have to decide whether to block it or let it come up for a vote. Despite Democrats’ vow to reject the measure, it could create an opening for negotiations between the two sides.The shutdown stalemate is creating increasing nervousness on Capitol Hill, especially among Republicans seeking re-election in Democratic-leaning states. One of them, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, is among only a handful of Republicans who have broken with the president and called for the government to reopen without a border security deal.On Saturday, she praised the president, saying she hoped that Mr. Trump’s offer would “lead to constructive debate that will end this impasse.”White House aides and allies of Mr. Trump said Saturday that Mr. Trump succeeded in ratcheting up the political pressure on Ms. Pelosi, especially if the Senate succeeded in passing a bill.“The Democrats’ talking points have been that the president is solely responsible for shutting down the government,” Marc Short, the former White House legislative director, said. “This puts more onus on them to come back and say why this proposal is insufficient.”But one reason Democrats are so leery of the deal is that they have been down this road with the president before. Last year, Mr. Trump and Mr. Schumer negotiated $25 billion in wall money for a pathway to citizenship for the Dreamers. But that deal fell apart when hard-line White House advisers persuaded the president to back away.The standoff over the shutdown, some former aides noted, was the first time Mr. Trump has had to engage in meaningful, high-stakes negotiations. But even that has come as a last resort, in what some have likened to negotiating out of desperation after failing to score political points.Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — House Democrats have added more than $1 billion in border-related spending to a package of funding bills that would reopen most of the government, even as President Trump said he would have a “major announcement” on Saturday about the border and the shutdown stalemate.[The Latest: In White House Address, Trump Proposes DACA Deal in Exchange for Wall Funding]Both sides’ actions were the first indications of possible movement over the shutdown after a week of inertia and harsh words between Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Mr. Trump. That conflict culminated when the president, responding to Ms. Pelosi’s request that he postpone his State of the Union address, announced on Thursday that he would not authorize the use of a military plane to fly her and other members of Congress to Afghanistan to meet with American troops.Ms. Pelosi said Friday she was postponing the trip after the White House leaked her alternative plan to use a commercial airline because she had been advised it was too dangerous.“Why would Nancy Pelosi leave the Country with other Democrats on a seven day excursion when 800,000 great people are not getting paid?” Mr. Trump asked on Twitter before Ms. Pelosi’s office had announced the postponement. The trip had actually been scheduled for six days, departing late Thursday and returning on Tuesday.The proposal to include more spending on border measures is scheduled for a vote next week, according to two senior Democratic officials. The plan reflects a shift in strategy by congressional Democrats, who have maintained that they would not give the president a counterproposal until he drops his insistence on a wall and signs legislation to reopen the government. It is an attempt to rebut Mr. Trump’s repeated portrayal of Democrats as opponents of border security and their denunciation of his wall as an embrace of open borders.About half the money, $524 million, would be for additional infrastructure at ports of entry on the border, one Democrat said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the plans have not been formally announced, while $563 million more would be inserted to fund 75 immigration judges, who adjudicate the claims of migrants who make asylum claims at the border.The funds were incorporated into a package of six spending bills that House and Senate Republicans and Democrats agreed to last year, and which cover funding for all the closed portions of the federal government except for the Department of Homeland Security.Democrats are also considering a new funding bill for the department, which has $1.3 billion allocated for border security. The proposal would include additional border protection measures they have endorsed, such as more personnel and scanning technology to intercept illicit drugs.It is far from clear whether the strategy will lead anywhere given Mr. Trump’s demand that any such measure must include money for his wall. Over the past two weeks, the House has passed an array of bills to reopen the government, including several Republican-drafted measures, only to be blocked by Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, who says he will not bring up any bill the president will not sign.But the ideas amount to a tacit acknowledgment by Democrats that, even as they criticize Mr. Trump’s tactics and demands in the shutdown fight, they have largely allowed him to define the terms of the debate on border security, and that they must be more effective in articulating their own position on the issue.“People want to make sure that it’s clear that the Democrats do stand for border security, and not allow the president to determine how we talk about it,” said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California. “We can’t cave to his vision for a wall, because of everything that it represents, but we also want to show that we’re for something.”The issue came up in a meeting of the Democratic caucus this week as Ms. Pelosi was briefing rank-and-file lawmakers about her latest broadside against Mr. Trump over the shutdown: her letter requesting that he delay or cancel his State of the Union address this month in light of the security measures that would have to be provided by federal workers who are working without pay. Mr. Trump’s response was to prevent Ms. Pelosi from taking her trip on a military plane.His letter to Ms. Pelosi announcing that step also disclosed her itinerary, which was secret given that Afghanistan was her destination. Official congressional trips are kept confidential for security reasons, particularly when they involve travel to war zones and high-ranking leaders like the speaker, who is second in line to the presidency.“You never give advance notice of going into a battle area — you just never do,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters at the Capitol, adding that Mr. Trump may not have understood that because of his inexperience.“The people around him, though, should have known that,” she said. “That’s very dangerous.”After Ms. Pelosi rushed to salvage the trip by making alternative travel arrangements to fly commercial instead, people close to Mr. Trump who had been briefed revealed the speaker’s plans to reporters late Thursday. By dawn on Friday, said Drew Hammill, her deputy chief of staff, facing a heightened State Department threat assessment and amid concern that the administration’s leaks had further compromised the safety of those involved, Ms. Pelosi canceled the trip.A White House official on Friday denied the charge, saying that there was no way for Ms. Pelosi to have kept her trip a secret and that any suggestion of a leak “is a flat-out lie.”Ms. Pelosi was asked by reporters on Friday whether she considered Mr. Trump’s grounding of her plane a reprisal for her request to delay his speech. “I would hope not,” she said. “I don’t think the president would be that petty, do you?”Mr. Trump had been just as pointed in his letter to Ms. Pelosi a day earlier, writing that with federal workers not receiving their paychecks, he was asking her to delay what he branded a “public relations event.”As the bad blood continued between the president and the speaker, the White House announced a new policy on Friday that banning all official, taxpayer-funded congressional travel for the duration of the shutdown, unless lawmakers had direct approval from Mr. Trump’s team.“Under no circumstances during a government shutdown will any government-owned, rented, leased or chartered aircraft support any congressional delegation, without the express written approval of the White House chief of staff,” Russell T. Vought, the acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, wrote in a memo announcing the change.Travel expenses also will not be paid for such trips, the memo said, suggesting that even if lawmakers sought to keep their plans and fly commercial, they would have to pay personally for the trip.Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, was on one such trip to Turkey this week. Asked whether Mr. Graham would have to cover his travel and expenses, his office referred questions to the White House.An administration official said the policy would not apply to Mr. Graham’s trip, since he had departed before the change was made.Annie Karni and Katie Rogers contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Christina GoldbaumOffering traditional Mexican food and social justice conversations, La Morada in the South Bronx is equal parts restaurant and refuge. Run by an immigrant family from Oaxaca, it is home to both fresh tostadas and a community book exchange.The purple walls are adorned with posters denouncing deportations and neighborhood children’s art projects. And one member of the family once spent two weeks in an Arizona immigration jail — by choice — as a form of political protest.But on Friday, an altercation between one of La Morada’s owners and police officers turned the haven into a hostile flash point, fracturing an often strained relationship between police officers in the 40th Precinct and the community they serve in the South Bronx.The interaction resulted in the arrest of Yajaira Saavedra, a daughter of Natalia Mendez and Antonio Saavedra, who opened the restaurant in 2009. Police also attempted to arrest her younger sister, Carolina, 25, but after Carolina started showing signs of a panic attack, police did not carry out the arrest, according to the Saavedra family.A few hours later Ms. Saavedra, 30, was released and her arrest voided after police determined she had not committed a crime.“As an undocumented immigrant, we are always on our toes when it comes to immigration raids and police raids, ” said Ms. Saavedra, who is a recipient of DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program that protects undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children. “They both create terror.”Accounts of the incident depict an ill-fated encounter between police in the midst of a sting operation that ended with an officer’s safety in jeopardy and a community with deep-seated distrust of all police activity.La Morada is situated in a part of New York City where homicides, fueled by entrenched poverty and rival criminal crews fighting over turf, stubbornly persist.Whereas some police precincts in New York now regularly experience no killings in a given year, the 40th Precinct in the Bronx — made up of the Melrose, Mott Haven, and Port Morris neighborhoods — logged 14 in 2016, six in 2017, and eight last year.To crack down on crime, officers in the 40th Precinct are active in the area but have tried to limit negative interactions with residents to maintain public trust, according to the police.“There has been a significant decrease in the number of interactions with the public while crime has continued to decrease,” according to Lt. John Grimpel, an NYPD spokesman. “We continue to correct conditions while at the same time using discretion and precision.”After the community fallout from Ms. Saavedra’s arrest, the 40th Precinct’s Community Affairs Unit said they were doing outreach to explain what happened and hear community members’ concerns. But that outreach does not always attract the community buy-in the unit needs to change residents’ negative perception of the police.“We put ourselves out there, we make ourselves available to the public, but we don’t receive the participation from the community we would like to see,” said Detective Claudia Mera of the Community Affairs Unit.The unit holds a meeting once every three months and invites area residents to bring up concerns.Still, there is no specific plan to address the incident at La Morada.Members of the community believe the tactics they use have created a schism between law-abiding residents and police officers who treat all residents as a possible threat.“I’ve been working in and with this community for two decades now and police brutality has always been an issue, relationships between the police department and the community have always been an issue,” said Alyshia Galvez, 45, a cultural anthropologist who works in the South Bronx. “The way Yajaira was disrespected is the same way other members of the community are disrespected on a daily basis.”For the South Bronx’s immigrant community, a negative experience with the police is not just an issue of respect and trust. It also brings fears for their immigration status. For Ms. Saavedra, her arrest made that fear palpable.“It doesn’t matter if I live in a sanctuary city,” she said. When the incident occurred, “I was just thinking that this could lead to my deportation.”It all began around 4:30 p.m. last Friday when an undercover officer from the Bronx narcotics unit made a felony purchase of narcotics on the street outside the restaurant and the individual from whom she purchased the drugs began acting aggressive, according to a police spokesman.Noticing what appeared to be an arrest happening outside the restaurant, Ms. Saavedra began filming the incident on her phone, mindful of the stories she hears often from friends and customers of what she describes as prejudiced police practices in the neighborhood.The police do “not have a good relationship with the community,” Ms. Saavedra said. “We see them making unfair arrests, racially profiling us, so I started recording so if that happened it could be exposed.”As the undercover officer entered La Morada for her own safety, another plainclothes officer approached Ms. Saavedra’s brother, Marco Saavedra, and asked him to momentarily close the restaurant to new customers. The siblings instead asked that the officers leave, explaining they did not want to be involved in any police activity.“I could tell the officer was getting frustrated, and that’s when he said he would ‘flip the place upside down’ if we didn’t do what he told us to,” said Mr. Saavedra.The police officers then left the restaurant, returning minutes later with additional officers and handcuffing Ms. Saavedra.Ms. Saavedra was trembling as she described her encounter on Monday morning after community members filled the restaurant offering their support.“La Morada is like the watering hole for this community, it’s our meeting point, and this family is an inspiration for us,” said Vanna Valdez, a 31-year-old resident who has lived in the neighborhood her entire life.Ms. Saavedra’s parents opened La Morada in 2009, after living in the United States for 17 years. When they came in 1992 after crossing the Sonoran Desert, their plan was to stay only one year. But settling into Washington Heights, her mother, Natalia Mendez, was impressed by the schools and the neighborhood so she sent for her children to come join them and begin life anew.When she and her husband, Antonio, opened the restaurant on Willis Avenue it became a neighborhood sensation. Longtime neighbors and resident artists became regulars. Mayor Bill de Blasio stopped by. The five moles Ms. Mendez prepared for her customers soon earned glowing reviews from critics who praised the family’s ability to bring both Oaxacan food and its sense of selfless reciprocity to the neighborhood.But the critical need the restaurant filled — providing neighbors a safe, positive, community-oriented space — also underscored the dangers that surrounded it.The attention Yajaira’s arrest garnered has made the incident a rallying cry for neighbors who have experienced similar interactions with the police and feel their voice is rarely heard.On Friday residents arrived at the precinct to demand her release while others went to La Morada to comfort her family members, who were shocked by the way the officers treated Yajaira.“This is the kind of thing I would see in Mexico not here in the United States, a country that respect laws,” said Antonio Saavedra, Ms. Saavedra’s father. “Where is the law? I don’t see it here right now.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — As the most diverse freshman class in history settles into the House of Representatives, newcomers like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan have been racking up social media followers and soaking up the spotlight, liberal firebrands largely elected to safe Democratic seats.But overlooked in the hallway protests and often glowing news media coverage, a larger group of more centrist Democrats has arrived with a different agenda. And now, they are quietly asserting their influence as the partial government shutdown, which has left them scrambling to explain why 800,000 workers are still without pay, enters its fifth week.The centrists, elected to seats held last year by Republicans, delivered Democrats their House majority, and their re-elections will be critical to keeping the party in power. They include a sizable subset with backgrounds in military, intelligence and national security, and won by promising to work across the aisle and to end dysfunction in Washington. Now they are caught in the most dysfunctional situation of all — a record-breaking shutdown — and they are under pressure from constituents to do something about it.[The Latest: In White House Address, Trump Proposes DACA Deal in Exchange for Wall Funding]This past week, a group of freshmen in Trump-leaning districts convened a private strategy session to discuss how they could press Speaker Nancy Pelosi to reclaim the issue of border security for Democrats and to open the door to negotiations with President Trump. Some also aired their frustrations with Representative Hakeem Jeffries, the chairman of the Democratic caucus, who hosted a small dinner for freshmen from battleground districts.“We have very real credibility on the border security issue,” said Representative Jason Crow, Democrat of Colorado and a former Army ranger. “I did two combat deployments to Afghanistan. Both of those were on the Afghan-Pakistan border interdicting drug and gun smuggling and insurgents coming across from Pakistan and the tribal regions. So I like to think I know a thing or two about border security, and you don’t do it by building walls.”Ms. Pelosi appears ready to listen. When Congress returns to Washington in the coming week, she is expected to bring up legislation that will include an additional $1 billion for border security measures, including 75 additional immigration judges and infrastructure improvements at ports of entry — though no money for Mr. Trump’s cherished border wall.She is also weighing whether to propose a Democratic homeland security bill that could lay the foundation for talks with Mr. Trump — a step that would be a significant shift in strategy for the new majority, which has instead spent the past several weeks emphasizing the shutdown’s emotional and financial toll on unpaid workers.“As someone who worked on preserving the homeland her entire life, I’m ready to talk about homeland security,” said Representative Elissa Slotkin, Democrat of Michigan, a former Pentagon official who also served in the C.I.A., and who organized the strategy session. “I don’t think we need a wall from sea to shining sea. But am I willing to talk about more fencing and more drones and technology and radar and border agents? Absolutely.”Of the roughly 60 new Democrats in Congress, two-thirds, including a tight-knit group of 10 who are either veterans or have national security experience, flipped Republican seats. They represent a very different face of the party: pragmatic moderates who believe they were elected not just to resist the president but also to cooperate with him where they can.“Every single one of them ran on a platform of going out to Washington, shaking things up and getting things done,” said Representative Cheri Bustos of Illinois, a member of Democratic leadership who focuses on electing Democrats in Trump districts. “From the day they were sworn in, the government has been shut down, and they don’t like it and the people they represent don’t like it.”Several of the freshman Democratic centrists, all members of a bipartisan group called the Problem Solvers Caucus, met with Mr. Trump at the White House this past week. Representative Abigail Spanberger of Virginia, a former C.I.A. operative who handled and recruited spies in Europe, said she told Mr. Trump that people in her district, including prison officials and Transportation Security Administration officers, are suffering. She said Mr. Trump did a surprising amount of listening.“I can’t speak for how he interpreted what we said, or how he listened to that information,” she said, “but it was a calm meeting. Most people spoke multiple times, and so I found that to be a positive thing.”But while Democratic leaders understand the eagerness to quickly end the shutdown — a sentiment shared by Democrats across the philosophical spectrum — they are also urging caution, and sticking to their insistence that they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump on border security until the government is fully open.“It’s fair to say that the freshman members of Congress, particularly the veterans and national security professionals, were sent to Washington to solve problems, and they would like to resolve the issue of border security in a bipartisan way,” Mr. Jeffries said. “That is the position of the House Democratic caucus as well, but it’s just a question of timing and the Republican willingness to stop acting like wholly owned subsidiaries of the Trump administration and engage in a meaningful conversation.”After just three weeks in Washington, many of the centrists say the partisan split in the Capitol is even worse than they had imagined, and some have been quietly reaching out to freshman Republicans to see if they can find a way to bridge the divide and end the shutdown.“When I think about being deployed on an aircraft carrier and we are simultaneously launching strikes against terrorist targets in Iraq and Afghanistan and I’m supervising the operation at the nuclear reactors, I don’t turn to one of the operators next to me and say, ‘Are you a Democrat or a Republican?’” said Representative Elaine Luria, Democrat of Virginia, who spent 20 years as a surface warfare officer and nuclear engineer in the Navy. “We’re all very frustrated by the partisanship.”Ms. Slotkin, who was an acting assistant secretary of defense under former President Barack Obama, described what she called a lack of evidence-based planning to secure the border.“If I was back at the Defense Department, we would look at an objective needs assessment for securing the border and we would build a budget to fund that security, and we would be negotiating on it,” she said.But she said that when she asked senior House members if such a document existed, she was told that the White House had its needs assessment and Democrats had theirs — and that neither was “truly objective.”In talking points issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosi’s office ticked off a list of items that the party favors as part of a plan for “strong, smart, effective border security,” including scanning technology at ports of entry to screen for drugs and weapons, drones and radar to spot migrants crossing illegally, filling more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers and building up infrastructure at official border crossings.The “service candidates,” as the veterans and national security professionals call themselves, see themselves taking a leading role in articulating that vision.In addition to discussing the financial toll of the shutdown, Representative Mikie Sherrill of New Jersey, a former federal prosecutor and Navy pilot, said Democrats needed to start underlining the “safety aspect” as well: “While we are arguing over border security, we’re not paying our Customs and Border Patrol agents, so we’re creating less security right now.”But the emphasis on border security may not sit well with their more progressive colleagues, who are more apt to talk about abolishing the Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agency than stopping the flow of drugs at the southern border with Mexico.“I don’t think we need to try to out-border security the Republicans at this point with this president,” said Corbin Trent, the communications director for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. “It makes more sense to focus on ways of creating an immigration system to bring people into this country to help build our economy and our society, rather than to help keep them out.”But Ms. Slotkin said it was time for the voices of those who flipped districts to be heard.“By the numbers, we should and do have a strong voice in the caucus,” she said, adding, “I think Alexandria has done a great job of attracting new young people into the political process and getting people engaged. I think that’s a good thing. Do I think she always represents every freshman? No.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Dave Itzkoff[Looking for TV and movie recommendations? Sign up for our newsletter, Watching.]With the partial government shutdown continuing to stretch on, “Saturday Night Live” proposed its own solution to the standoff: a game show parody.The first new “S.N.L.” of 2019 opened with a special “government shutdown edition” of “Deal or No Deal,” whose only contestant was President Trump — played by Alec Baldwin in his recurring role — looking for a compromise that would end the impasse.As the host Steve Harvey (played by Kenan Thompson) explained to Baldwin, “Earlier today you went on TV and you told the American people that you wanted to make a deal.” He added, “So we decided to do this in the only format that you can understand: a TV game show with women holding briefcases.”After rejecting the immigration deal that Congress offered in December, Baldwin made a counterproposal: “I want $5 billion for my border wall,” he said, “and in exchange I’ll extend DACA, and I’ll release the kids from cages so they can be free-range kids.”Baldwin considered other offers contained in briefcases held by various members of Congress. He started with Nancy Pelosi (Kate McKinnon), whose briefcase contained a note that read, “$1 billion + you say ‘Nancy’s my mommy.’”As Baldwin and McKinnon bickered further, Thompson said, “This is like watching two grandparents fight over the thermostat.”Baldwin next turned to Chuck Schumer (Alex Moffat), who opened a briefcase that said, “Whatever you want.”McKinnon reminded him: “Chuck, we’re not doing that anymore. Remember, we’re projecting strength?” she said. Moffat turned over another card that read, “$15 + Pastrami on Rye.”Baldwin further approached Mitch McConnell (Beck Bennett), Maxine Waters (Leslie Jones) and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (Melissa Villaseñor), who quipped, “Trump and the G.O.P are just terrified of me because I’m under 100 and I know how to use Instagram.”Finally, Baldwin turned to a Clemson football player (Pete Davidson) who wasn’t holding a briefcase but instead carried a White Castle box with a note inside that read, “Hamberders.”Baldwin settled his dispute for a hamburger, and Thompson observed, “Well, I guess that makes as much sense as anything else that’s going on these days.”In other memorable moments from the show:Return of Pete Davidson of the WeekHours before the last “S.N.L.” episode of 2018, Pete Davidson published a troubling Instagram message in which he wrote, in part, “I don’t really want to be on this earth anymore. I’m doing my best to stay here for you but I actually don’t know how much longer I can last.” (The New York Police Department subsequently sent an officer to NBC to check on Davidson, who has talked about being given a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder.)This week, Davidson appeared in several sketches as well as this “Weekend Update” deskside segment where, at first, it appeared he was going to address last month’s worrisome events. “As you know,” Davidson said, “I’ve had a really crazy month, and I want to talk about something that really matters to me.”Colin Jost asked, “Mental health?”Davidson answered, “No, the new Clint Eastwood movie ‘The Mule.’”Davidson then brought out John Mulaney, the comedian and “S.N.L.” alumnus, and the two of them then really did make a lot of jokes about “The Mule.”But at one point in the bit, Mulaney said, “I’ve been spending time with Pete, to try to show him that you can have a life in comedy that is not insane; a sober domestic life.”Davidson replied, “Yeah, and after observing John’s life, I publicly threatened suicide.”After a few laughs, Mulaney turned to Davidson and said, “You are loved by many. And we are glad you are O.K.”“Marvelous Mrs. Maisel” Parody of the WeekYou can’t have an “S.N.L.” episode hosted by Rachel Brosnahan without poking a little fun at her hit Amazon series, “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel.” In this take on the show, Leslie Jones plays Rita Mae Johnson, a floor-sweeper at the Gaslight Café who, with a little encouragement from Mrs. Maisel, becomes an exceptionally foul-mouthed stand-up comic named “The Raunchiest Miss Rita.”We can’t reproduce any of her jokes here, but we will endorse this sketch’s impersonations of the “Mrs. Maisel” co-stars Alex Borstein (Aidy Bryant) and Tony Shalhoub (Kyle Mooney).Weekend Update Jokes of the WeekAt the “Weekend Update” desk, the anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che continued to riff on the shutdown and a BuzzFeed News report that was disputed by the office of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.Jost:President Trump, the man who said he would own the shutdown, clearly does not care about the people who are working unpaid, who can’t afford basic things like food. But why would he care? He’s a billionaire who controls all the hamburgers in the world. Then after Scrooge McDonald’s was done hosting his burger orgy, he went on television today and made a new proposal to end the shutdown. And that proposal was basically, “You give me $5.7 billion and I’ll give you back the Dreamers.”Am I the only one who thinks that sounds like a hostage negotiation? I can’t wait to see his written proposal. [A ransom note appears on screen.] By the way, these protections he’s offering aren’t even real laws, they’re just vague promises he’s making. And I trust a promise from Donald Trump as much as I trust R. Kelly in a Claire’s boutique.Che:Yeah, I agree. That speech sucked. First of all, he didn’t even say hi. He just started talking, like we was already talking. I found that to be rude. Then he said he’s going to stop half the crime and 90 percent of the heroin with something called slats. Which as you can see is a wall without all the wall. Hear that, Mexico? Good luck trying to crack this code. What are you going to do, pass your drugs and small children through those giant slats? Imagine you’re a Coast Guard or TSA or any of the thousands of government workers that are actually stopping drugs and crime from getting into this country, and you haven’t been paid in a month. And the president gets on TV — doesn’t say sorry, doesn’t even say hi — but instead, he’s like, “Hey, what do you all think about slats?”Jost:BuzzFeed published a story that said Robert Mueller had evidence of Trump committing an impeachable crime. But the details were so sketchy that even Mueller’s team had to be like, “Sorry, fake news.” How disappointing was that? You know how many suburban moms had to retract their group texts to the family reading, “We got him!!!” The crazy part is that the White House is now celebrating that Mueller disputed only this one aspect of the investigation, while there’s still like 100 other crimes still on the table. If you got tested for every STD, and your doctor said, “Well, the good news is, you don’t have chlamydia,” you wouldn’t be like, “That’s all I need to hear, doc — no condoms for this guy.”Che:Look, BuzzFeed, I think it’s great — we all think it’s great that you all want to help. But this isn’t really what we need from you. Y’all are BuzzFeed, you do memes and lists. Everybody’s got that aunt who has roaches, and every Thanksgiving, she’s like, “Hey, y’all, what should I bring?” And we’re like, “Uh, ice. You bring the ice, because we don’t want to be picking raisins out of the turkey.” That’s you, BuzzFeed, you bring the Ice. As Dr. King once said, “Don’t go chasing waterfalls, please stick to the rivers and the lakes that you’re used to.” There’s no shame in that. We all play a role. Look, sometimes, kids come up to me and they’ll say, “Michael Che, I get all my news from you.” And I say, “Don’t do that.” I bring the ice.Weekend Update Deskside Bit of the WeekPlaying Elizabeth Warren, the Democratic Senator from Massachusetts and 2020 presidential hopeful, Kate McKinnon sought to establish herself as a fighter: “I’m like if ‘Monday Night Raw’ was hosted by Terry Gross,” she said. McKinnon also took potshots at potential Democratic rivals like Kirsten Gillibrand (whom she called “Kirsten Stole-My-Brand”) and rued her decision to take a DNA test to prove that her family had origins in the Cherokee and Delaware tribes:“I did the DNA test,” she said, “and the test came back 100 percent bad idea. Who knew race science wasn’t a good PR strategy?”Fake Commercial of the WeekIf you’ve kept up with the conversation around a recent Gillette advertisement that asks consumers to give more thought to patterns of toxic male behavior and turns the razor company’s slogan into a moral question — “Is this the best a man can get?” — you’ll have the proper context for this “S.N.L.” parody: a fake commercial for Kool-Aid, in which men engage in toxic conduct — say, bursting into a business meeting and interrupting a female colleague — while under the influence of the popular flavored drink. As a solemn voice-over reminds viewers, “The Kool-Aid boys watching today will be the Kool-Aid men of tomorrow.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Michael TackettWASHINGTON — President Trump threatened on Friday to keep the federal government partly closed for “months or even years” if he did not get $5.6 billion for his wall at the southern border, and he warned that he was considering declaring a national emergency to build it without congressional approval.Mr. Trump and Democratic leaders emerged from a two-hour meeting in the White House Situation Room without a deal to reopen government agencies that have already been shuttered for two weeks, and the two sides offered sharply contrasting views of where they stood. By day’s end, the two sides appeared to be still locked in a stalemate.Democrats called the meeting “contentious” while the president and Republican leaders in the House called it “productive.” And while Mr. Trump announced that he had assigned Vice President Mike Pence to lead a “working group” to negotiate with Democrats over the weekend, Democrats said the phrase “working group” was never discussed.“We told the president we needed the government open,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, told reporters outside the White House. “He resisted. In fact, he said he’d keep the government closed for a very long period of time, months or even years.”[President Trump took the public stage this week clearly intent on framing the conflict on his own terms.]Over the past two decades, there were large declines in apprehensions along the southwestern border with Mexico. In April 2017, apprehensions hit the lowest point over that time period, and in 2018 they have since increased to levels similar to those under President Barack Obama.Apprehensions at the southwestern border, by monthObama34,647BushAverage per month: 81,588Trump28,869150,000100,00050,000200120032005200720092011201320152017Apprehensions at the southwestern border, by monthTrump28,869Obama34,647Bush81,588 Average per month 150,000100,00050,00020012005200920132017Source: U.S. Customs and Border ProtectionBy The New York TimesAppearing in the Rose Garden later, Mr. Trump confirmed the remark. “I did say that. Absolutely I said that,” he said, flanked by Mr. Pence; Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary; and House Republican leaders. “I don’t think it will, but I am prepared.”The impasse, heading into its third week, has closed parts of nine federal agencies, including the Interior Department and the Internal Revenue Service, and left 800,000 federal employees either furloughed or working without pay. Mr. Trump expressed little concern for their plight, telling reporters on Friday afternoon that when he hosted members of the Border Patrol union — his political allies — on Thursday at the White House, they told him not to worry about them, and that he was doing “a great thing for our country.”Friday’s effort to jump-start talks was an early test of the new political dynamic in Washington, where Democrats have just taken control of the House for the first time in eight years. Mr. Trump, trying to seize control of the narrative, followed the session with his rambling Rose Garden appearance. There, he said he told Democrats he wants $5.6 billion for the wall — a figure that is a nonstarter for Democrats, who insist he will get no funding for the barrier at all.Ever the real estate developer, Mr. Trump offered his vision for what the wall would look like, saying it would be either solid concrete or solid steel, though “steel is actually more expensive,” he said.The president then boasted that its construction would be a boon for American industry: “All of the border things that we’ll be building will be done right here in the good old U.S.A. by steel companies that were practically out of business when I came into office.”As to invoking his emergency powers to build it, “I may do it,” Mr. Trump said. “But we can call a national emergency and build it very quickly. And it’s another way of doing it. But if we can do it through a negotiated process, we’re giving that a shot.”Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.But if Mr. Trump is showing no signs of backing down, the pressure may be building on Republicans in Congress. Two Republican senators have said they want votes to reopen the government, and more than a half-dozen House Republicans joined Democrats on Thursday night to do just that.The president was asked if he was still “proud to own” the shutdown — a reference to a comment he made last month during a televised Oval Office meeting, when he said he would be proud to shut down the government over border security.“I’m very proud of doing what I’m doing,” he replied. “I don’t call it a shutdown. I call it ‘doing what you have to do for the benefit and for the safety of our country.’”The White House later said it has scheduled a meeting for Saturday morning with aides to House and Senate leaders; it was unclear whether Mr. Pence and the others would be involved.Behind the scenes, there were some indications that a search for a way out of the impasse was underway. Some conservative commentators, including Sean Hannity of Fox News, who is close to Mr. Trump, may have signaled a path out, suggesting that the president resurrect the old Democratic notion of twinning wall funding with protections for the young immigrants brought illegally to the country as children who are known as Dreamers.Such immigrants are currently protected by Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival, or DACA, a program created by President Barack Obama that Mr. Trump has moved to rescind. On his way to the White House meeting, Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republican leader, seemed open to such a deal.“We can find common ground,” Mr. McCarthy told reporters. “DACA is a problem, border security is a problem and anything that can make sure that we can get everything together and move forward, I’m willing to discuss.”Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, has also suggested that Democrats could give Mr. Trump an additional $1 billion to fortify ports of entry rather than a border wall.But while Mr. Trump said DACA was raised during the White House session, one Democratic aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the private talks, said it came up only fleetingly. And in the news conference, Mr. Trump made clear that he did not want to address the DACA issue — which is now the subject of several lawsuits that are working their way through the federal courts — until the Supreme Court renders a final decision on whether Mr. Trump’s order to rescind the program can stand.Mr. Trump also raised the issue of ports of entry for immigrants, but again, he eventually stuck to his demand that any strengthening of controls at such ports needed to be complemented with a wall.The president said he invited Democrats to send negotiators to meet over the weekend with three high-ranking officials — Mr. Pence, Ms. Nielsen and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser — to negotiate a deal to strengthen security along the border. Democrats told reporters after the meeting that they implored the president to first reopen the government so they could negotiate without holding federal operations and employees hostage.No matter what happens, the government will remain partly shuttered at least through Tuesday because both houses of Congress are adjourned until then.On Friday, the president also sent a letter to Congress that was an unsubtle rebuff to Democratic leaders with whom he had previously met on Wednesday. According to a person in that earlier meeting, Representative Nancy Pelosi, who was then on the verge of becoming House speaker, cut off Ms. Nielsen as she reeled off statistics about the border. In his letter, Mr. Trump said that “some of those present did not want to hear the presentation at the time, and so I have instead decided to make the presentation available to all members of Congress.”On Thursday, under Ms. Pelosi’s leadership, the House passed a two-bill package to reopen the government. The first measure combines six bills that have already garnered bipartisan support in the Republican-led Senate; they would reopen nearly all of the shuttered agencies and fund them through Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year.The second is a stopgap spending measure to fund the Department of Homeland Security through Feb. 8 — a date that Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, proposed toward the end of last year in a measure that passed the Senate by voice vote, but which the president rejected. In their last meeting, Mr. Trump rejected reopening the government while wall talks continued, telling the group, “I would look foolish if I did that.”For his part, Mr. McConnell has refused to take up the House package, insisting that he will not bring anything to the floor that Mr. Trump will not sign. Democrats argued in the meeting that Mr. McConnell should at least pass the cluster of appropriations bills while continuing to negotiate over border security. But Mr. Trump again rejected that idea on Friday.Mr. McConnell has largely absented himself from the talks, insisting that it is up to Democrats to resolve the impasse, and one person familiar with Friday’s meeting said that Mr. McConnell said very little. But he is beginning to face pressure from Republicans who are seeking re-election in 2020 and are targeted by Democrats.Two senators from Democratic-leaning states, Cory Gardner of Colorado and Susan Collins of Maine, have already expressed misgivings over their leaders’ intransigence. Mr. Gardner called on his party to end the shutdown, even if it meant not funding the wall, and Ms. Collins — who took a leading role in ending a previous shutdown — said she would support measures to fund the government in already approved appropriations bills.Peter Baker contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — America will get its first taste of divided government under President Trump this week when a Democratic House tries to wrest control of the political agenda from Mr. Trump, who appears determined to keep the focus on border security, immigration and his “big, beautiful” wall.After the midterm elections ushered in the most diverse freshman class in history, House Democrats intend to put a spotlight on the issues that worked well for them during the campaign: diminishing the influence of the wealthy and connected, expanding voting rights, lowering prescription drug costs and passing a bipartisan infrastructure bill.Mr. Trump, on the defensive and presiding over a federal government that remains partially closed, is trying to stomp on that message. On Tuesday, as the government shutdown was in its 11th day, Mr. Trump invited congressional leaders of both parties to a briefing on border security Wednesday afternoon. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said on Tuesday night that Mr. Trump would attend.It would be the first visit by Democratic leaders to the White House since Dec. 11, when the president told Representative Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer he would be “proud to shut down the government for border security.”Mr. Trump appeared to make a gesture of peace ahead of Wednesday’s meeting.“Border Security and the Wall ‘thing’ and Shutdown is not where Nancy Pelosi wanted to start her tenure as Speaker!” he said Tuesday on Twitter. “Let’s make a deal?”Just what deal Mr. Trump had in mind was not clear. While Ms. Pelosi has repeatedly signaled she would like to find a compromise that would allow the government to reopen, she has also made it clear that a wall cannot be part of any such deal, whether or not that leads to a messy start to her speakership.After she is elected speaker on Thursday, she hopes to introduce a transparency-in-governing measure to portray Democrats as a responsible governing party and draw a contrast between them and Mr. Trump’s scandal-ridden administration. The measure would require disclosure of shadowy political donors, end gerrymandering of congressional districts and expand voting rights.But their first order of business will be reopening the government, as Ms. Pelosi said Tuesday on Twitter in response to Mr. Trump.The president “has given Democrats a great opportunity to show how we will govern responsibly & quickly pass our plan to end the irresponsible #TrumpShutdown,” she said, “just the first sign of things to come.”Democrats also intend to use their first months in the majority to push for a bipartisan infrastructure bill and legislation to lower prescription drug costs, issues that they believe will have bipartisan appeal.The Democrats plan to pass two bills on Thursday. The first includes six bipartisan spending measures that would fully fund agencies like the Interior Department and the Internal Revenue Service through the end of the fiscal year in September. The second would fund the Department of Homeland Security through Feb. 8, with $1.3 billion for fencing but no money for a wall on the Mexican border.With the plan facing a shaky future in the Senate and an intransigent president, some rank-and-file lawmakers in both parties are suggesting that a deal to revamp the nation’s immigration laws, pairing border security and protections for some undocumented immigrants, may be the way out of the stalemate.“How about comprehensive immigration reform?” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, said on CNN on Tuesday, when asked how Democrats intend to compromise with Mr. Trump.One of Mr. Trump’s closest allies, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, has revived his long-stalled immigration proposal to marry $5 billion for the wall with immigration law changes that might appeal to Democrats, including three-year renewable work permits for young undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children, known as Dreamers.Mr. Trump has raised the prospects of broader talks on Twitter. “We will be forced to close the Southern Border entirely if the Obstructionist Democrats do not give us the money to finish the Wall & also change the ridiculous immigration laws that our Country is saddled with,” he said last week. “Hard to believe there was a Congress & President who would approve!”Mr. Trump has also claimed, somewhat misleadingly, that Democrats had already voted for a wall.“I’m in the Oval Office,” he tweeted on Monday. “Democrats, come back from vacation now and give us the votes necessary for Border Security, including the Wall. You voted yes in 2006 and 2013.”He was referring to the Secure Fence Act of 2006, which authorized building a fence along 700 miles of the southern border, and to a 2013 comprehensive immigration bill. That bill passed the Senate with 68 votes but did not make it out of the House. It combined the Republican priority of enhanced border security with the Democratic goal of offering legalization and a pathway to citizenship for the nation’s 11 million undocumented immigrants.Democratic leaders are wary of any immigration negotiations with Mr. Trump, whom they view as an unreliable partner. Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the new chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said in an interview on Tuesday that Democrats would not again broach immigration before the government is reopened.“We do have a broken immigration system that needs to be fixed in a sustainable and bipartisan way,” Mr. Jeffries said. “However, it’s impossible to have a mature conversation about comprehensive immigration reform in the midst of a reckless Trump shutdown sparked by his desire to build a medieval border wall.”Democrats have not forgotten that a year ago, when they talked to Mr. Trump about DACA, he promised to work with them on a “bill of love,” only to back away, prompting Mr. Schumer to declare that negotiating with Mr. Trump was like “negotiating with Jell-O.”Senator Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, said the challenge lies with the Republican majority in the Senate.“If you want to get a bipartisan immigration bill in the coming months, you’re going to have to have Republican senators willing to work across the aisle to get things done,” Mr. Van Hollen said. “I don’t think they can give President Trump the pen to write every word of legislation.”At the same time, Democratic leaders will face pressures of their own, from a freshman class packed with first- and second-generation immigrants, Latinos and immigrant advocates. House Democratic leaders and their staffs have indicated to immigration advocates that they plan to act on legislation to protect immigrants who face an imminent threat of deportation after the shutdown is over. That proposal would grant permanent residence to DACA recipients and to others who came under Temporary Protected Status, which Mr. Trump has also moved to rescind.“What we want in 2019 is early action on a bill that combines a permanent solution for Dreamers and for T.P.S. holders,” said Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrant advocacy group.Democrats have already begun strategizing privately around such a bill, which would most likely pass the House with little to no Republican support. But Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, has shown little appetite for politically tricky measures that divide Republicans or put them at odds with Mr. Trump — particularly on immigration.The issue could expose fissures among Democrats as well. Liberals are agitating for measures such as abolishing Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that carries out deportations, or killing funding for immigration detention beds and enforcement agents.But Democratic congressional leaders and many rank-and-file members, including freshmen elected in districts carried in 2016 by Mr. Trump, say they are all for border security and enforcement, as long as it is effective and reasonable.Broader immigration legislation “would be nice, if we had a reliable person at the other side of the table to negotiate with,” said Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia. “I wouldn’t be so bold as to predict a magic bullet.”Emily Cochrane and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOnly Senate Republicans can make government work.By David BrooksOpinion ColumnistDear Senate Republicans, I really enjoy spending time with you. You are interesting and excellent company (I really mean that!). When I’m with you, we often enter a magical land in which Donald Trump doesn’t exist. You’re eager to tell me about the issues you’re working on, and sometimes we have these substantive conversations in which we get to ignore the raging dumpster fire on the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue.In fact, sometimes I think the Senate isn’t a legislative body; it’s the world’s most expensive writer’s colony. Half the senators I meet are writing books.But there’s one question, which I’d like to ask of practically every member of Congress. Why are you so dispossessed?You take all the trouble to run for public office and, against all odds, you actually get in a position to wield influence. But then you accede to a thousand small decisions that you and your predecessors have made, and you give it all away.There are 535 Americans elected to Congress, but the way things are arranged now only three have real power — Nancy Pelosi, Mitch McConnell and Chuck Schumer. Only a handful of others — in leadership — have a whiff of power. The rest of you have rendered yourselves less powerful, in a way never envisioned by the founders.You Senate Republicans are in a double bind because what power you didn’t give to the majority leader you gave to Trump. All of you know more about policy and the craft of governing than Trump. But you didn’t want to get ahead of Trump and lead independently because you didn’t want to offend him and be primaried. So you adopted a hunkered-down defensive crouch just to get through each passing day.I understand why you were deferential in 2017 and 2018. But the Democratic capture of the House changes everything and gives you an opportunity to lead.First, there is a good chance that the Democrats will impeach Trump this year or next. When that happens, you Senate Republicans are effectively the jury. Suddenly Trump needs you more than you need him. Suddenly he’s going to be much less likely to go against you personally. Even the mere specter of impeachment changes his whole attitude toward you.Second, the power structure of Washington has fundamentally changed. Pelosi is now one power center. Trump is another. You Senate Republicans are the fulcrum between the two. You are the crucial players in this drama if you decide to make yourselves that.Take the government shutdown fiasco, for example. On one side there is Trump, who wants a concrete or steel wall — which is an inane policy, but there it is. On the other side is Pelosi, who says walls are immoral. No money for a wall. Pelosi’s policy is equally inane. We’ve already got 654 miles of fencing on the southern border. It may be wasteful, but how is it “immoral” to go up to 800 or even 1,000 miles?This is where you come in. You are at the fulcrum between the absolutist inane positions. You have the power to create facts on the ground.You pass the obvious deal that everyone has been talking about for a year: a wall for DACA. Trump won the 2016 election offering voters a wall — so he gets $5 billion for “border security,” which he can claim is a wall. The Democrats won the 2018 midterms offering voters a path to citizenship for the Dreamers, so they get their path.This deal has fallen apart in the past because people got greedy. Republicans wanted to add interior enforcement measures. Democrats wanted a broader amnesty. But you’re professionals. You pass a bill that simple and skinny. A wall for a path.By passing an actual bill you cut through the dysfunctional negotiations at the White House. You make Trump and Pelosi come to you, to accept or reject.Moreover, this general approach can be applied across policy areas. It does not mean going against Trump or your base. You are giving Trump things he’s unable to get on his own. It doesn’t mean crushing the Democrats. It means governing within the reality of divided government. It means exercising leadership to create a government that actually works.Right now, there is a massive leadership vacuum in Washington. The White House can’t lead because it lacks a legislative agenda and a competent chief executive. Pelosi can’t lead because she has control of only one chamber and she has a base that doesn’t believe that Trump is legitimate or that compromise with him is moral. McConnell can’t lead because he’s in a tough position in Kentucky and can’t allow any space to develop on his right for a potential primary challenger.It’s only you — the other 52 Senate Republicans — who can fill that leadership vacuum. It’s yours if you have the audacity to seize the power that is rightfully yours. If you do it, your nation could have a government that’s at least semi-functional over the next two years. If not, we’re a failed state.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Brooks has been a columnist with The Times since 2003. He is the author of “The Road to Character” and the forthcoming book, “The Second Mountain.”  @nytdavidbrooks AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Haberman and Annie KarniVice President Mike Pence insisted on beginning the first meeting with a prayer, so the chief of staff to the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, asked God “to bring us together” when negotiators met Saturday in Mr. Pence’s ceremonial office in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building.The next day, Democrats began with their own prayer — offered by a member of Senator Richard J. Durbin’s staff — that noted that Jesus and Mary were both refugees.The two disparate prayers underscored the stalemate that lawmakers find themselves in as the shutdown drags into its third week: The two sides could not even agree on a pro forma invocation.Sixteen days into the partial government shutdown, Congressional Democrats and the White House have made little progress. The two weekend meetings, described by White House officials and Democratic staffers in attendance who wished to remain anonymous, showed in ways big and small how the distance between the two sides remains a wide gulf with no clear compromise on the horizon.The Democratic staffers, who on Sunday waited for about 45 minutes when Republicans were late to the scheduled meeting, said they would not negotiate on the border wall until the government was reopened, according to a White House official in the room. Mr. Pence made it clear that the White House would not budge from the $5.7 billion in funding it wants for a wall, and that the White House would not reopen the government by supporting the six-bill package that the House has passed, according to a Democratic official familiar with the meeting.And the White House had no response, Democratic staffers said, when they pushed to acknowledge that making Transportation Security Administration officials work without pay, and shuttering other agencies, was creating a security crisis in itself. When pressed to put their demands in writing, the gap between the sides seemed to widen even more as Republicans added requests for asylum port-of-entry changes that Democrats do not favor, and for additional presence of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement along the border.Republicans, for their part, were more eager to demonstrate that progress was made over the weekend.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, on “Fox News Sunday” called the meetings “the beginning of a conversation” and said, “The fact that they’re sitting down at the table is some progress.”But Democrats said they were left with the impression that the most senior officials in attendance were arguing that they were not empowered to make any agreements. Mr. Pence noted that no numbers for wall funding would be discussed because the meeting was not a principals’ meeting. And when he introduced the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, as the person who knew Mr. Trump better than anyone, Mr. Kushner demurred, saying that distinction belonged to his wife, Ivanka Trump, the president’s eldest daughter, who was not in the meeting.A White House staffer in attendance described the weekend discussions as productive and cordial, but blamed Ms. Pelosi for being unwilling to look like she was negotiating with Mr. Trump to end the shutdown.While there was little common ground, some small advances were made, White House officials said. Republicans agreed that a concrete wall was a non-starter, and that any text of a bill would refer to steel and not concrete.And even though Mr. Pence said numbers would not be part of the weekend discussions, the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Kirstjen Nielsen, on Sunday provided Democrats with a written statement outlining why the administration needed $5.7 billion for a barrier along the southern border.In the meeting, Ms. Nielsen also gave the full briefing she had prepared to give Democratic leaders last week in the Situation Room, outlining what the White House has described as a crisis at the border. Several Democrats in the room, according to the White House official, said they agreed with her that a humanitarian border crisis did exist. But the Democrats who were interviewed said the two sides remained far apart about what constituted the correct response to a humanitarian crisis.Stephen Miller, the White House policy aide who has been the architect of the president’s immigration policies and its public face, occupied a seat along the edge of the room at Saturday’s meeting, not at the table, and spoke infrequently, according to attendees. He interjected memorably only once, to argue that the Flores agreement, which limits how long the government can detain immigrant children to 20 days, was creating a loophole for smugglers.Mr. Kushner at one point defended Mr. Miller, calling him an expert on the subject. White House aides chuckled when he noted Mr. Miller’s hard-line reputation as an immigration zealot was unfair. The Democrats, however, did not express any amusement. Mr. Kushner asked the Democrats at the table why they would not concede to changes in the Flores agreement, but Mr. Pence later clarified that changes were not a condition of their negotiations.At a news conference last week, Mr. Trump hinted that he might be willing to come to an agreement with Democrats on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, and addressing the issue of thousands of young immigrants who live in the country illegally. But the subject of a DACA-for-wall deal was never broached over the weekend, aides said.And when Democrats asked Mr. Pence about the possibility of the president declaring a “national emergency” in order to secure money to build a wall, as he floated to reporters on Sunday, Mr. Pence said the president has not yet made a decision.The White House made clear on Monday that Mr. Trump was standing firm on his insistence for a border wall. Ms. Sanders announced on Twitter that Mr. Trump would visit the southern border, to highlight the continuing “national security and humanitarian crisis.”An earlier version of this article misstated who offered a prayer on Sunday at a meeting on the shutdown attended by Democratic congressional staff members, Vice President Mike Pence and other White House officials. It was offered by a member of Senator Richard J. Durbin’s staff, not by a member of Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s staff.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael Tackett and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — As a partial government shutdown entered its third week, negotiations between Vice President Mike Pence and congressional aides from both parties yielded little progress on Saturday while the impact on government services and on federal workers was worsening by the day.“Not much headway made today,” President Trump conceded on Twitter, not long after the vice president’s office characterized the roughly two-hour talks, held next to the White House at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, as “productive.”V.P. Mike Pence and team just left the White House. Briefed me on their meeting with the Schumer/Pelosi representatives. Not much headway made today. Second meeting set for tomorrow. After so many decades, must finally and permanently fix the problems on the Southern Border!The two sides are scheduled to meet again Sunday afternoon, but there was little hope that the broad divide between Mr. Trump and Democrats over his demand for more than $5 billion for a border wall would be bridged anytime soon. Saturday’s talks came a day after Mr. Trump said the government shutdown could continue for “months or even years” if Democrats did not relent on their steadfast refusal to grant him the wall money.The negotiations on Saturday focused on priorities for security rather than a dollar figure for the border wall, the vice president’s office said. While Mr. Trump has stood by his $5.7 billion demand, Senate Democrats have offered $1.3 billion for border security, including fencing, while Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the top Senate Democrat, Chuck Schumer of New York, have repeatedly said that they will not agree to any wall funding. Ms. Pelosi has called a border wall an “immorality.”The vice president’s office said that Mr. Pence had reiterated the president’s position that any deal needed to include funding for the wall. The office also said that Democrats had requested additional information from the Department of Homeland Security about its needs to deal with border issues.Democratic staff members asked for a formal budget justification for the administration’s insistence on its $5.7 billion proposal, a Democratic official familiar with the discussion said, adding that Mr. Pence made clear that the White House would not budge from that figure. The Democrats told the vice president that there would be no movement on the dollar figure until after the government is reopened.It is unclear just what kind of authority Mr. Trump has granted Mr. Pence to speak for him in negotiations. Last month, when Mr. Pence made a $2.6 billion counteroffer to Democrats in an effort to avert the shutdown, Mr. Trump quickly shot down the proposal.During the talks on Saturday, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, offered a briefing on what the administration has deemed a “crisis” at the border. Ms. Nielsen had tried to give a similar briefing earlier in the week to congressional leaders and White House officials gathered in the Situation Room, but she was cut off by Ms. Pelosi, who questioned Ms. Nielsen’s facts.In addition to Ms. Nielsen, the vice president was joined on Saturday by Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, and Jared Kushner, a senior adviser to Mr. Trump. Mr. Kushner is said to have raised the prospect with Democratic lawmakers that if they give the president the full $5.7 billion in wall funding or something close to it, they might in exchange get an agreement for new protections for the young immigrants known as Dreamers. The prospect of such a deal has alarmed some conservatives.For his part, the president seemed to be goading Democrats with a morning tweet that implied that he was ready to talk with them at the White House, even though it was Mr. Trump who had announced on Friday that the meeting would be at the staff level.The president also repeated his claim that the bulk of federal workers who are going without pay are Democrats — a claim rebuffed by federal union leaders — but said their political affiliation was not relevant to him. On Friday, he had said that most federal workers supported his demand for a border wall and were willing to sacrifice their paychecks to achieve it.As the shutdown reached its 14th day, the finances of government agencies continued to show signs of strain. On Saturday, Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, said the agency had about one month’s funding left for some of its activities.There have also been a few new signs of fraying political fealty to the president among Republicans. On Friday, Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, became the third member of his party in the Senate to call for an end to the shutdown, joining Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado and Senator Susan Collins of Maine. All three are expected to face difficult re-election battles in 2020.In an op-ed article for the newspaper The Hill published Friday evening, Mr. Tillis encouraged Congress to strike a deal that would provide “long-term certainty to the DACA population” — the Dreamers brought to the United States as children — and “force out the extreme elements on either side of the aisle.”“When it comes to securing our borders, it’s important to note that the real solution is not going to be a big, literal physical wall, but rather an all-the-above, all-hands-on-deck approach,” he wrote, adding his support for solutions including “physical barriers and steel fences.”The op-ed came just a day after the campaign arm of the Senate Democrats released statements to local news media targeting Republican senators up for re-election.In a move to keep pressure on the president and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, Ms. Pelosi announced Saturday afternoon that House Democrats would begin passing individual appropriations bills next week to reopen all government agencies, beginning with legislation that would reopen the Internal Revenue Service.“This action is necessary so that the American people can receive their tax refunds on schedule,” Ms. Pelosi said in a statement. “The certainty of the tax returns of hard-working families should no longer be held hostage to the president.”Mr. McConnell has largely stayed on the sidelines in the shutdown fight, saying that any solution must be reached between Mr. Trump and Democrats. In an opinion column on Friday, The Courier-Journal of Louisville, the largest newspaper in Mr. McConnell’s home state, called on him to “get into the game” and end “a crisis that really doesn’t need to be happening.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFact Check During a news conference on Friday, President Trump insisted that most furloughed federal employees supported his wall, that Mexico is paying for it and that it would stop a horde of terrorists from crossing the border. None of that was true. By Linda Qiu and Michael TackettMost federal workers, even those with rent owed and bills due, would gladly forgo their paycheck as a measure of support for his $5.6 billion border wall, President Trump said on Friday.He also noted that Mexico would actually be paying for the wall through a new trade agreement, which at the very least raised the question of why the government had to be shut down over a funding dispute involving American tax dollars if the funding was coming from another country. And then there was a Plan C: He said he could use “emergency powers” to build the wall. The wall was needed for many reasons, Mr. Trump said. Stopping drug and human trafficking, and a nonspecific reference to a torrent of terrorists and coyotes easily flowing in over the southern border. “They drive right in, and they make a left,” he said.But there also was sunshine amid the gloom. Mr. Trump spoke of a stunningly positive jobs report and a stock market that soared, at least for a day. Lower gas prices? One person to thank.The purpose of the president’s hastily arranged, hourlong news conference in the Rose Garden was to give his side of the negotiations over a partial government shutdown that stretches into its third week on Saturday. And, for the record, Mr. Trump is not calling the partial closing of the government “a shutdown.”“I don’t call it a shutdown,” he said. “I call it doing what you have to do for the benefit and for the safety of our country.”The news conference was freewheeling, and the president seemed in high spirits, even with the government shuttered in many places. “Should we keep this going or not?” he said.Here are some takeaways and fact-checks. Mr. Trump has called for a concrete wall on the border with Mexico, though he denied it, telling reporters, “I said I was going to build a wall. I never said I’m going to build a concrete.” (Just four days ago, Mr. Trump tweeted that “an all concrete Wall was NEVER ABANDONED.”)Now, he said, steel might be the preferred material, suggesting that would also help a resurgent steel industry in the United States, and could be preferable for its see-through and more aesthetic qualities. “All of the border things that we’ll be building will be done right here in the good old USA by steel companies that were practically out of business when I came into office as president. And now, they’re thriving.” Later, he said, “the steel industry was almost dead.”"Dead" is an exaggeration. Steel production has been in decline, as has the number of employees in the industry. But the metals industry still employed over 360,000 workers and produced 80 million tons of raw steel in the year before Mr. Trump took office.At any rate, Mr. Trump continued, “we’ve already built a lot of the wall” and “renovated a tremendous amount of wall.” (The Trump administration has replaced some existing barriers with new barriers, and will begin constructing 14 miles of new wall in February. But to date, construction on his border wall has not started.)In his first meeting about a shutdown with Representative Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer in the Oval Office last month, the president forcefully said that he alone would own the shutdown. On Friday, he was selling shares in it. “You can call it the Schumer or the Pelosi or the Trump shutdown,” he said. “Doesn’t make any difference to me. It’s just words.”Could he reach a compromise with Democrats to end the shutdown by coupling wall funding with a pathway to citizenship for the young immigrants known as Dreamers? Mr. Trump responded that Democrats lost interest as soon as the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld an injunction against his administration’s termination of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. (A deal on the program and to avoid an earlier government shutdown in early 2018 faltered last January, after Mr. Trump made vulgar remarks on immigration. The court ruled on the case in November.)That was such a bad decision from the court, Mr. Trump asserted, that even his predecessor, “when he signed the DACA, with the executive order, made a statement to the effect, this isn’t going to work.” (President Barack Obama did not sign an executive order to implement the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. He announced it as a Department of Homeland Security policy in a speech in 2012. He did not say it would not work, but called it a “temporary stopgap.”)For federal workers who may need a safety net or financial assistance as they go without pay, Mr. Trump said “the safety net is going to be having a strong border,” especially because government employees support his wall. (A recent poll of more than 1,400 by Government Executive suggests the opposite: most oppose the shutdown and the wall.) The president said that the new trade deal with Mexico and Canada will yield billions of dollars for this country. “That is paying for the wall,” he said. “Many, many times over. In fact, what we save on the U.S.M.C.A., the new trade deal we have with Mexico and Canada, what we save on that just with Mexico will pay for the wall many times over, just in a period of a year, two years and three years. So I view that as absolutely Mexico is paying for the wall.” (Congress has yet to ratify the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, and it does not compel Mexico to pay for the wall. Whatever federal revenue it generates would come from American taxpayers, not Mexico.)And, Mr. Trump said, why shouldn’t Mexico pay for the wall through trade, given that “we are losing close to $100 billion a year on trade with Mexico.” (The United States had a $69 billion trade deficit with Mexico in 2017.)Mr. Trump also took another shot at the North American Free Trade Agreement that the new trade deal seeks to replace, arguing that “we lost millions of jobs” through Nafta. (The left-leaning Economic Policy Institute estimated that the United States lost 850,000 jobs because of Nafta. The Times was unable to find any credible estimate that supported Mr. Trump’s “millions” figure.)Asked about ongoing trade talks with Beijing, Mr. Trump reported that “China is paying us tremendous tariffs.” (The United States does not send China a bill for the cost of tariffs, which are often passed on to American importers or consumers.)China, by the way, “is the biggest beneficiary of Apple,” so Mr. Trump is not concerned that the company reduced its revenue forecast this week, sending stocks tumbling. Nonetheless, Mr. Trump said Apple is “investing $350 billion because of what we did with taxes and the incentives that we created in the United States.” (Apple was already on track to spend $275 billion in the United States over the next five years. After a $38 billion tax payment, the company’s investment would be roughly $37 billion.)After suggesting that terrorists were pouring into the country over wall-less portions of the border, Mr. Trump turned to Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, for specifics. She said there were 3,000 such terrorists “that we know about,” but said she could not divulge other information because it was classified.(The 3,000 figure referred to “special interest aliens” stopped at the border, a term that applies to people from any country that has exported or produced one terrorist, according to the libertarian Cato Institute. Besides this ambiguous figure, Mr. Trump has yet to provide evidence for his claim. The State Department said in a September report there is “no credible evidence” that terrorist groups had sent operatives to enter the United States through Mexico. The report warned of the vulnerability, but said it was more likely terrorist groups would seek other means of entry.)Mr. Trump said that the government would have to use its powers of eminent domain to take private land to build the wall when owners would not agree to sell. He said that’s how interstates, schools and other public buildings have been constructed.Many in his base disagree, especially in Texas where private property rights are often paramount.Mr. Trump said, mostly in jest, that he had raised the matter of impeachment with Ms. Pelosi, asking her why she did not use the border security issue as grounds. “And Nancy said we’re not looking to impeach you. I said that’s good, Nancy, that’s good.”He added, “You can’t impeach somebody that is doing a great job. That’s the way I view it.”Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu Michael Tackett covers national politics. He has written about politics for more than 30 years and has covered six presidential elections.  @tackettdc AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Peter BakerWASHINGTON — Before it became the chief sticking point in a government shutdown drama that threatens to consume his presidency at a critical moment, President Trump’s promise to build a wall on the southwestern border was a memory trick for an undisciplined candidate.As Mr. Trump began exploring a presidential run in 2014, his political advisers landed on the idea of a border wall as a mnemonic device of sorts, a way to make sure their candidate — who hated reading from a script but loved boasting about himself and his talents as a builder — would remember to talk about getting tough on immigration, which was to be a signature issue in his nascent campaign.“How do we get him to continue to talk about immigration?” Sam Nunberg, one of Mr. Trump’s early political advisers, recalled telling Roger J. Stone Jr., another adviser. “We’re going to get him to talk about he’s going to build a wall.”Talk Mr. Trump did, and the line drew rapturous cheers from conservative audiences, thrilling the candidate and soon becoming a staple of campaign speeches. Chants of “Build the wall!” echoed through arenas throughout the country.Now, Mr. Trump’s fixation with a border wall — the material embodiment of his keep-them-out immigration agenda — has run headlong into the new realities of divided government, pitting him against Democrats who reject the idea out of hand. The impasse is particularly remarkable given that even some immigration hard-liners do not regard the wall as their highest priority and fear that Mr. Trump’s preoccupation with it will prompt him to cut a deal that trades a relatively ineffectual measure for major concessions on immigration.“I’ve always thought it created a danger that he would trade almost anything in order to get the wall — I think that’s still a potential danger,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that argues for less immigration. “I’m still worried about that now.”That fear has been realized at times when Mr. Trump has explored a deal with Democrats on granting permanent legal status for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, known as Dreamers. The president has always walked away at the last moment from committing to preserving the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, but on Friday, FAIR, an anti-immigration group, warned him again that it would be a mistake.To many conservative activists who have pressed for decades for sharp reductions in both illegal and legal immigration — and some of the Republican lawmakers who are allied with them — a physical barrier on the border with Mexico is barely relevant, little more than a footnote to a long list of policy changes they believe are needed to fix a broken system.The disconnect is at the heart of the dilemma facing Mr. Trump as he labors to find a way out of an impasse that has shuttered large parts of the government and cost 800,000 federal employees their pay. Having spent more than four years — first as a candidate and then as president — whipping his core supporters into a frenzy over the idea of building a border wall, Mr. Trump finds himself in a political box of his own making.Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.In transforming the wall into a powerful emblem of his anti-immigration message, Mr. Trump has made the proposal politically untouchable for Democrats, who have steadfastly refused to fund it, complicating the chances of any compromise.“As a messaging strategy, it was pretty successful,” Mr. Krikorian said. “The problem is, you got elected; now what do you do? Having made it his signature issue, Trump handed the Democrats a weapon against him.”The dynamic has been on vivid display this past week as Mr. Trump has argued that there can be no deal to reopen the government unless his wall is paid for, while Democrats, now in control of the House, have refused in ever sharper terms.“A wall is an immorality — it’s not who we are as a nation,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Thursday. “This is not a wall between Mexico and the United States that the president is creating here; it’s a wall between reality and his constituents, his supporters.”Last month, in private comments to Democratic lawmakers after an Oval Office confrontation with Mr. Trump, Ms. Pelosi said the wall was “like a manhood thing for him.”Yet it has also become an outsize symbol in the other direction for Democrats, many of whom supported at least some sort of barrier along the border in the past but now cast Mr. Trump’s wall as a travesty. Sixty-four Democrats in the House and 26 in the Senate voted in 2006 for the Secure Fence Act, which provided for hundreds of miles of fencing along the border. Among them were Senators Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Chuck Schumer.“The only things that have changed is the situation at the border is worse and Donald Trump got elected,” said Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor.Ms. Conway said Mr. Trump had become so committed to a wall because it would not only prevent the entry of many illegal immigrants and stem the flow of drugs, but also discourage migrants from coming in the first place.“The reason he’s focused on the wall is he thinks you need a very robust physical barrier at the border that you can’t climb over, slide under, drive through or walk around,” she said. “He believes it’s got to be something that’s a deterrent that stops people from taking these perilous journeys.”Beyond the symbolism, Democrats now argue that a wall is an expensive and ineffective means of curbing illegal immigration. The majority of undocumented immigrants are people who overstay visas, not people who sneak across the border. A report released in March by Democrats on the Senate Homeland Security Committee found that Border Patrol agents on the front lines said they needed more technology and additional personnel to curb illegal immigration and drug traffic, with less than one half of one percent mentioning a wall.Mr. Schumer, now the Senate Democratic leader, has insisted for two years that any spending agreements contain language barring federal money for Mr. Trump’s wall. Republican leaders went along each time, even as the president became increasingly irate, once coming close to vetoing a spending package on the day of the White House signing ceremony.While most Republicans refuse to say so publicly for fear of angering Mr. Trump, many share the view that the wall is only a piece — and nowhere near the most important one — of a broader set of actions needed to overhaul the immigration system, including cuts to legal immigration, tighter standards for granting asylum and better enforcement.Mick Mulvaney, Mr. Trump’s acting chief of staff, gave voice to that position in 2015, when he was a congressman from South Carolina, telling a local radio station that Mr. Trump, at the time a presidential candidate, had an overly simplistic view of tackling immigration.“The fence is an easy thing to sell politically,” Mr. Mulvaney said then. “It’s an easy thing for someone who doesn’t follow the issue very closely to say, ‘Oh, well, that will just solve everything, build the fence.’ The fence doesn’t solve the problem.”“Just to say ‘build the darn fence’ and have that be the end of an immigration discussion is absurd and almost childish,” Mr. Mulvaney said.John F. Kelly, Mr. Trump’s former chief of staff, enraged Mr. Trump last year when he privately told a group of Democratic lawmakers that the president had not been “fully informed” when he proposed a border wall during his campaign, and had since “evolved” under Mr. Kelly’s tutelage. “The Wall is the Wall,” the president responded in an angry tweet contradicting his top aide.“To be honest, it’s not a wall,” Mr. Kelly said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times last month as he prepared to leave the White House, adding that the administration had abandoned the idea of a “solid concrete wall early on.” His comments prompted another irate tweet from Mr. Trump. “An all concrete Wall was NEVER ABANDONED,” he wrote.Mr. Trump himself has at other times said he is not necessarily wedded to a concrete wall but open to different forms of barriers at different points along the border, including steel slats. “I never said, ‘I’m going to build a concrete” wall, he said on Friday, rewriting history. “I said I’m going to build a wall.”NumbersUSA, another conservative group that presses for stricter immigration policies, circulated an article last month suggesting that Mr. Trump drop his wall demand in favor of a plan to mandate that all employers use E-Verify, an electronic system that checks immigration status for prospective employees.The wall “has sucked political capital from the pursuit of other, and arguably better, means to deter illegal immigrants,” wrote Heather Mac Donald of the Manhattan Institute.Yet Mr. Trump has tethered himself to the wall and shows no sign of letting go.Ann Coulter, who along with Rush Limbaugh, Matt Drudge and other conservative commentators has pressed Mr. Trump to live up to his campaign promise, said the focus on the wall was not to be to the exclusion of other policies aimed at stemming illegal immigration.“We want that stuff too — but we also want a wall,” she said in an email on Friday. “The chant at every campaign rally wasn’t, ‘Enforce E-Verify!’ ‘Tax remittances!’” she added, referring to a proposal to tax cash payments sent by immigrants to their families in Mexico and Central America.Advisers said the president became absorbed by the idea of a wall because it was the most memorable and tangible promise he made while stumping for the White House in 2016.“He wants to call it a wall because that’s what he campaigned on,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump’s. “He’s very obsessed about carrying out his campaign promises — I think to a degree that’s unhealthy — but that’s important to him, and that’s not a bad thing.”Mr. Ruddy and some other advisers argue that Mr. Trump has more room to maneuver than he thinks, because his base would accept his word that some form of additional security along the border was the equivalent of a wall in terms of effectiveness.“Listening to Rush Limbaugh and Ann Coulter on this is a mistake,” Mr. Ruddy said. “I don’t think the president’s base moves even one inch from him even if he doesn’t get a wall. They know where his heart is, they know where his mind is.”Michael D’Antonio, a biographer of Mr. Trump, said the wall appealed to the builder and brander in him. “I think he hears the beep, beep, beep of a cement truck backing up and the product being poured and the wall rising,” Mr. D’Antonio said. “He can grasp that stuff. He loves it.”It would be a presidential legacy that future generations could see and touch, an accomplishment that would last for ages. “I think he’d like it being called the Great Wall of Trump,” Mr. D’Antonio said, with a plaque to the president who built it “every mile or so.”The simplicity of the concept made it a powerful sales pitch on the campaign trail. “It’s a four-letter thing,” Mr. D’Antonio said. “It’s an idea that can be expressed in a single word, and I think that has great appeal to him as a marketer. It’s sort of ‘crooked Hillary’ or ‘lock her up,’ but it’s even better.”OpinionBruce AckermanAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Michael TackettWASHINGTON — President Trump threatened on Friday to keep the federal government partly closed for “months or even years” if he did not get $5.6 billion for his wall at the southern border, and he warned that he was considering declaring a national emergency to build it without congressional approval.Mr. Trump and Democratic leaders emerged from a two-hour meeting in the White House Situation Room without a deal to reopen government agencies that have already been shuttered for two weeks, and the two sides offered sharply contrasting views of where they stood. By day’s end, the two sides appeared to be still locked in a stalemate.Democrats called the meeting “contentious” while the president and Republican leaders in the House called it “productive.” And while Mr. Trump announced that he had assigned Vice President Mike Pence to lead a “working group” to negotiate with Democrats over the weekend, Democrats said the phrase “working group” was never discussed.“We told the president we needed the government open,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, told reporters outside the White House. “He resisted. In fact, he said he’d keep the government closed for a very long period of time, months or even years.”[President Trump took the public stage this week clearly intent on framing the conflict on his own terms.]Over the past two decades, there were large declines in apprehensions along the southwestern border with Mexico. In April 2017, apprehensions hit the lowest point over that time period, and in 2018 they have since increased to levels similar to those under President Barack Obama.Apprehensions at the southwestern border, by monthObama34,647BushAverage per month: 81,588Trump28,869150,000100,00050,000200120032005200720092011201320152017Apprehensions at the southwestern border, by monthTrump28,869Obama34,647Bush81,588 Average per month 150,000100,00050,00020012005200920132017Source: U.S. Customs and Border ProtectionBy The New York TimesAppearing in the Rose Garden later, Mr. Trump confirmed the remark. “I did say that. Absolutely I said that,” he said, flanked by Mr. Pence; Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary; and House Republican leaders. “I don’t think it will, but I am prepared.”The impasse, heading into its third week, has closed parts of nine federal agencies, including the Interior Department and the Internal Revenue Service, and left 800,000 federal employees either furloughed or working without pay. Mr. Trump expressed little concern for their plight, telling reporters on Friday afternoon that when he hosted members of the Border Patrol union — his political allies — on Thursday at the White House, they told him not to worry about them, and that he was doing “a great thing for our country.”Friday’s effort to jump-start talks was an early test of the new political dynamic in Washington, where Democrats have just taken control of the House for the first time in eight years. Mr. Trump, trying to seize control of the narrative, followed the session with his rambling Rose Garden appearance. There, he said he told Democrats he wants $5.6 billion for the wall — a figure that is a nonstarter for Democrats, who insist he will get no funding for the barrier at all.Ever the real estate developer, Mr. Trump offered his vision for what the wall would look like, saying it would be either solid concrete or solid steel, though “steel is actually more expensive,” he said.The president then boasted that its construction would be a boon for American industry: “All of the border things that we’ll be building will be done right here in the good old U.S.A. by steel companies that were practically out of business when I came into office.”As to invoking his emergency powers to build it, “I may do it,” Mr. Trump said. “But we can call a national emergency and build it very quickly. And it’s another way of doing it. But if we can do it through a negotiated process, we’re giving that a shot.”Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.But if Mr. Trump is showing no signs of backing down, the pressure may be building on Republicans in Congress. Two Republican senators have said they want votes to reopen the government, and more than a half-dozen House Republicans joined Democrats on Thursday night to do just that.The president was asked if he was still “proud to own” the shutdown — a reference to a comment he made last month during a televised Oval Office meeting, when he said he would be proud to shut down the government over border security.“I’m very proud of doing what I’m doing,” he replied. “I don’t call it a shutdown. I call it ‘doing what you have to do for the benefit and for the safety of our country.’”The White House later said it has scheduled a meeting for Saturday morning with aides to House and Senate leaders; it was unclear whether Mr. Pence and the others would be involved.Behind the scenes, there were some indications that a search for a way out of the impasse was underway. Some conservative commentators, including Sean Hannity of Fox News, who is close to Mr. Trump, may have signaled a path out, suggesting that the president resurrect the old Democratic notion of twinning wall funding with protections for the young immigrants brought illegally to the country as children who are known as Dreamers.Such immigrants are currently protected by Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival, or DACA, a program created by President Barack Obama that Mr. Trump has moved to rescind. On his way to the White House meeting, Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republican leader, seemed open to such a deal.“We can find common ground,” Mr. McCarthy told reporters. “DACA is a problem, border security is a problem and anything that can make sure that we can get everything together and move forward, I’m willing to discuss.”Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, has also suggested that Democrats could give Mr. Trump an additional $1 billion to fortify ports of entry rather than a border wall.But while Mr. Trump said DACA was raised during the White House session, one Democratic aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the private talks, said it came up only fleetingly. And in the news conference, Mr. Trump made clear that he did not want to address the DACA issue — which is now the subject of several lawsuits that are working their way through the federal courts — until the Supreme Court renders a final decision on whether Mr. Trump’s order to rescind the program can stand.Mr. Trump also raised the issue of ports of entry for immigrants, but again, he eventually stuck to his demand that any strengthening of controls at such ports needed to be complemented with a wall.The president said he invited Democrats to send negotiators to meet over the weekend with three high-ranking officials — Mr. Pence, Ms. Nielsen and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser — to negotiate a deal to strengthen security along the border. Democrats told reporters after the meeting that they implored the president to first reopen the government so they could negotiate without holding federal operations and employees hostage.No matter what happens, the government will remain partly shuttered at least through Tuesday because both houses of Congress are adjourned until then.On Friday, the president also sent a letter to Congress that was an unsubtle rebuff to Democratic leaders with whom he had previously met on Wednesday. According to a person in that earlier meeting, Representative Nancy Pelosi, who was then on the verge of becoming House speaker, cut off Ms. Nielsen as she reeled off statistics about the border. In his letter, Mr. Trump said that “some of those present did not want to hear the presentation at the time, and so I have instead decided to make the presentation available to all members of Congress.”On Thursday, under Ms. Pelosi’s leadership, the House passed a two-bill package to reopen the government. The first measure combines six bills that have already garnered bipartisan support in the Republican-led Senate; they would reopen nearly all of the shuttered agencies and fund them through Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year.The second is a stopgap spending measure to fund the Department of Homeland Security through Feb. 8 — a date that Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, proposed toward the end of last year in a measure that passed the Senate by voice vote, but which the president rejected. In their last meeting, Mr. Trump rejected reopening the government while wall talks continued, telling the group, “I would look foolish if I did that.”For his part, Mr. McConnell has refused to take up the House package, insisting that he will not bring anything to the floor that Mr. Trump will not sign. Democrats argued in the meeting that Mr. McConnell should at least pass the cluster of appropriations bills while continuing to negotiate over border security. But Mr. Trump again rejected that idea on Friday.Mr. McConnell has largely absented himself from the talks, insisting that it is up to Democrats to resolve the impasse, and one person familiar with Friday’s meeting said that Mr. McConnell said very little. But he is beginning to face pressure from Republicans who are seeking re-election in 2020 and are targeted by Democrats.Two senators from Democratic-leaning states, Cory Gardner of Colorado and Susan Collins of Maine, have already expressed misgivings over their leaders’ intransigence. Mr. Gardner called on his party to end the shutdown, even if it meant not funding the wall, and Ms. Collins — who took a leading role in ending a previous shutdown — said she would support measures to fund the government in already approved appropriations bills.Peter Baker contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — America will get its first taste of divided government under President Trump this week when a Democratic House tries to wrest control of the political agenda from Mr. Trump, who appears determined to keep the focus on border security, immigration and his “big, beautiful” wall.After the midterm elections ushered in the most diverse freshman class in history, House Democrats intend to put a spotlight on the issues that worked well for them during the campaign: diminishing the influence of the wealthy and connected, expanding voting rights, lowering prescription drug costs and passing a bipartisan infrastructure bill.Mr. Trump, on the defensive and presiding over a federal government that remains partially closed, is trying to stomp on that message. On Tuesday, as the government shutdown was in its 11th day, Mr. Trump invited congressional leaders of both parties to a briefing on border security Wednesday afternoon. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said on Tuesday night that Mr. Trump would attend.It would be the first visit by Democratic leaders to the White House since Dec. 11, when the president told Representative Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer he would be “proud to shut down the government for border security.”Mr. Trump appeared to make a gesture of peace ahead of Wednesday’s meeting.“Border Security and the Wall ‘thing’ and Shutdown is not where Nancy Pelosi wanted to start her tenure as Speaker!” he said Tuesday on Twitter. “Let’s make a deal?”Just what deal Mr. Trump had in mind was not clear. While Ms. Pelosi has repeatedly signaled she would like to find a compromise that would allow the government to reopen, she has also made it clear that a wall cannot be part of any such deal, whether or not that leads to a messy start to her speakership.After she is elected speaker on Thursday, she hopes to introduce a transparency-in-governing measure to portray Democrats as a responsible governing party and draw a contrast between them and Mr. Trump’s scandal-ridden administration. The measure would require disclosure of shadowy political donors, end gerrymandering of congressional districts and expand voting rights.But their first order of business will be reopening the government, as Ms. Pelosi said Tuesday on Twitter in response to Mr. Trump.The president “has given Democrats a great opportunity to show how we will govern responsibly & quickly pass our plan to end the irresponsible #TrumpShutdown,” she said, “just the first sign of things to come.”Democrats also intend to use their first months in the majority to push for a bipartisan infrastructure bill and legislation to lower prescription drug costs, issues that they believe will have bipartisan appeal.The Democrats plan to pass two bills on Thursday. The first includes six bipartisan spending measures that would fully fund agencies like the Interior Department and the Internal Revenue Service through the end of the fiscal year in September. The second would fund the Department of Homeland Security through Feb. 8, with $1.3 billion for fencing but no money for a wall on the Mexican border.With the plan facing a shaky future in the Senate and an intransigent president, some rank-and-file lawmakers in both parties are suggesting that a deal to revamp the nation’s immigration laws, pairing border security and protections for some undocumented immigrants, may be the way out of the stalemate.“How about comprehensive immigration reform?” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, said on CNN on Tuesday, when asked how Democrats intend to compromise with Mr. Trump.One of Mr. Trump’s closest allies, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, has revived his long-stalled immigration proposal to marry $5 billion for the wall with immigration law changes that might appeal to Democrats, including three-year renewable work permits for young undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children, known as Dreamers.Mr. Trump has raised the prospects of broader talks on Twitter. “We will be forced to close the Southern Border entirely if the Obstructionist Democrats do not give us the money to finish the Wall & also change the ridiculous immigration laws that our Country is saddled with,” he said last week. “Hard to believe there was a Congress & President who would approve!”Mr. Trump has also claimed, somewhat misleadingly, that Democrats had already voted for a wall.“I’m in the Oval Office,” he tweeted on Monday. “Democrats, come back from vacation now and give us the votes necessary for Border Security, including the Wall. You voted yes in 2006 and 2013.”He was referring to the Secure Fence Act of 2006, which authorized building a fence along 700 miles of the southern border, and to a 2013 comprehensive immigration bill. That bill passed the Senate with 68 votes but did not make it out of the House. It combined the Republican priority of enhanced border security with the Democratic goal of offering legalization and a pathway to citizenship for the nation’s 11 million undocumented immigrants.Democratic leaders are wary of any immigration negotiations with Mr. Trump, whom they view as an unreliable partner. Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the new chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said in an interview on Tuesday that Democrats would not again broach immigration before the government is reopened.“We do have a broken immigration system that needs to be fixed in a sustainable and bipartisan way,” Mr. Jeffries said. “However, it’s impossible to have a mature conversation about comprehensive immigration reform in the midst of a reckless Trump shutdown sparked by his desire to build a medieval border wall.”Democrats have not forgotten that a year ago, when they talked to Mr. Trump about DACA, he promised to work with them on a “bill of love,” only to back away, prompting Mr. Schumer to declare that negotiating with Mr. Trump was like “negotiating with Jell-O.”Senator Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, said the challenge lies with the Republican majority in the Senate.“If you want to get a bipartisan immigration bill in the coming months, you’re going to have to have Republican senators willing to work across the aisle to get things done,” Mr. Van Hollen said. “I don’t think they can give President Trump the pen to write every word of legislation.”At the same time, Democratic leaders will face pressures of their own, from a freshman class packed with first- and second-generation immigrants, Latinos and immigrant advocates. House Democratic leaders and their staffs have indicated to immigration advocates that they plan to act on legislation to protect immigrants who face an imminent threat of deportation after the shutdown is over. That proposal would grant permanent residence to DACA recipients and to others who came under Temporary Protected Status, which Mr. Trump has also moved to rescind.“What we want in 2019 is early action on a bill that combines a permanent solution for Dreamers and for T.P.S. holders,” said Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrant advocacy group.Democrats have already begun strategizing privately around such a bill, which would most likely pass the House with little to no Republican support. But Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, has shown little appetite for politically tricky measures that divide Republicans or put them at odds with Mr. Trump — particularly on immigration.The issue could expose fissures among Democrats as well. Liberals are agitating for measures such as abolishing Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that carries out deportations, or killing funding for immigration detention beds and enforcement agents.But Democratic congressional leaders and many rank-and-file members, including freshmen elected in districts carried in 2016 by Mr. Trump, say they are all for border security and enforcement, as long as it is effective and reasonable.Broader immigration legislation “would be nice, if we had a reliable person at the other side of the table to negotiate with,” said Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia. “I wouldn’t be so bold as to predict a magic bullet.”Emily Cochrane and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOnly Senate Republicans can make government work.By David BrooksOpinion ColumnistDear Senate Republicans, I really enjoy spending time with you. You are interesting and excellent company (I really mean that!). When I’m with you, we often enter a magical land in which Donald Trump doesn’t exist. You’re eager to tell me about the issues you’re working on, and sometimes we have these substantive conversations in which we get to ignore the raging dumpster fire on the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue.In fact, sometimes I think the Senate isn’t a legislative body; it’s the world’s most expensive writer’s colony. Half the senators I meet are writing books.But there’s one question, which I’d like to ask of practically every member of Congress. Why are you so dispossessed?You take all the trouble to run for public office and, against all odds, you actually get in a position to wield influence. But then you accede to a thousand small decisions that you and your predecessors have made, and you give it all away.There are 535 Americans elected to Congress, but the way things are arranged now only three have real power — Nancy Pelosi, Mitch McConnell and Chuck Schumer. Only a handful of others — in leadership — have a whiff of power. The rest of you have rendered yourselves less powerful, in a way never envisioned by the founders.You Senate Republicans are in a double bind because what power you didn’t give to the majority leader you gave to Trump. All of you know more about policy and the craft of governing than Trump. But you didn’t want to get ahead of Trump and lead independently because you didn’t want to offend him and be primaried. So you adopted a hunkered-down defensive crouch just to get through each passing day.I understand why you were deferential in 2017 and 2018. But the Democratic capture of the House changes everything and gives you an opportunity to lead.First, there is a good chance that the Democrats will impeach Trump this year or next. When that happens, you Senate Republicans are effectively the jury. Suddenly Trump needs you more than you need him. Suddenly he’s going to be much less likely to go against you personally. Even the mere specter of impeachment changes his whole attitude toward you.Second, the power structure of Washington has fundamentally changed. Pelosi is now one power center. Trump is another. You Senate Republicans are the fulcrum between the two. You are the crucial players in this drama if you decide to make yourselves that.Take the government shutdown fiasco, for example. On one side there is Trump, who wants a concrete or steel wall — which is an inane policy, but there it is. On the other side is Pelosi, who says walls are immoral. No money for a wall. Pelosi’s policy is equally inane. We’ve already got 654 miles of fencing on the southern border. It may be wasteful, but how is it “immoral” to go up to 800 or even 1,000 miles?This is where you come in. You are at the fulcrum between the absolutist inane positions. You have the power to create facts on the ground.You pass the obvious deal that everyone has been talking about for a year: a wall for DACA. Trump won the 2016 election offering voters a wall — so he gets $5 billion for “border security,” which he can claim is a wall. The Democrats won the 2018 midterms offering voters a path to citizenship for the Dreamers, so they get their path.This deal has fallen apart in the past because people got greedy. Republicans wanted to add interior enforcement measures. Democrats wanted a broader amnesty. But you’re professionals. You pass a bill that simple and skinny. A wall for a path.By passing an actual bill you cut through the dysfunctional negotiations at the White House. You make Trump and Pelosi come to you, to accept or reject.Moreover, this general approach can be applied across policy areas. It does not mean going against Trump or your base. You are giving Trump things he’s unable to get on his own. It doesn’t mean crushing the Democrats. It means governing within the reality of divided government. It means exercising leadership to create a government that actually works.Right now, there is a massive leadership vacuum in Washington. The White House can’t lead because it lacks a legislative agenda and a competent chief executive. Pelosi can’t lead because she has control of only one chamber and she has a base that doesn’t believe that Trump is legitimate or that compromise with him is moral. McConnell can’t lead because he’s in a tough position in Kentucky and can’t allow any space to develop on his right for a potential primary challenger.It’s only you — the other 52 Senate Republicans — who can fill that leadership vacuum. It’s yours if you have the audacity to seize the power that is rightfully yours. If you do it, your nation could have a government that’s at least semi-functional over the next two years. If not, we’re a failed state.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Brooks has been a columnist with The Times since 2003. He is the author of “The Road to Character” and the forthcoming book, “The Second Mountain.”  @nytdavidbrooks AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Haberman and Annie KarniVice President Mike Pence insisted on beginning the first meeting with a prayer, so the chief of staff to the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, asked God “to bring us together” when negotiators met Saturday in Mr. Pence’s ceremonial office in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building.The next day, Democrats began with their own prayer — offered by a member of Senator Richard J. Durbin’s staff — that noted that Jesus and Mary were both refugees.The two disparate prayers underscored the stalemate that lawmakers find themselves in as the shutdown drags into its third week: The two sides could not even agree on a pro forma invocation.Sixteen days into the partial government shutdown, Congressional Democrats and the White House have made little progress. The two weekend meetings, described by White House officials and Democratic staffers in attendance who wished to remain anonymous, showed in ways big and small how the distance between the two sides remains a wide gulf with no clear compromise on the horizon.The Democratic staffers, who on Sunday waited for about 45 minutes when Republicans were late to the scheduled meeting, said they would not negotiate on the border wall until the government was reopened, according to a White House official in the room. Mr. Pence made it clear that the White House would not budge from the $5.7 billion in funding it wants for a wall, and that the White House would not reopen the government by supporting the six-bill package that the House has passed, according to a Democratic official familiar with the meeting.And the White House had no response, Democratic staffers said, when they pushed to acknowledge that making Transportation Security Administration officials work without pay, and shuttering other agencies, was creating a security crisis in itself. When pressed to put their demands in writing, the gap between the sides seemed to widen even more as Republicans added requests for asylum port-of-entry changes that Democrats do not favor, and for additional presence of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement along the border.Republicans, for their part, were more eager to demonstrate that progress was made over the weekend.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, on “Fox News Sunday” called the meetings “the beginning of a conversation” and said, “The fact that they’re sitting down at the table is some progress.”But Democrats said they were left with the impression that the most senior officials in attendance were arguing that they were not empowered to make any agreements. Mr. Pence noted that no numbers for wall funding would be discussed because the meeting was not a principals’ meeting. And when he introduced the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, as the person who knew Mr. Trump better than anyone, Mr. Kushner demurred, saying that distinction belonged to his wife, Ivanka Trump, the president’s eldest daughter, who was not in the meeting.A White House staffer in attendance described the weekend discussions as productive and cordial, but blamed Ms. Pelosi for being unwilling to look like she was negotiating with Mr. Trump to end the shutdown.While there was little common ground, some small advances were made, White House officials said. Republicans agreed that a concrete wall was a non-starter, and that any text of a bill would refer to steel and not concrete.And even though Mr. Pence said numbers would not be part of the weekend discussions, the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Kirstjen Nielsen, on Sunday provided Democrats with a written statement outlining why the administration needed $5.7 billion for a barrier along the southern border.In the meeting, Ms. Nielsen also gave the full briefing she had prepared to give Democratic leaders last week in the Situation Room, outlining what the White House has described as a crisis at the border. Several Democrats in the room, according to the White House official, said they agreed with her that a humanitarian border crisis did exist. But the Democrats who were interviewed said the two sides remained far apart about what constituted the correct response to a humanitarian crisis.Stephen Miller, the White House policy aide who has been the architect of the president’s immigration policies and its public face, occupied a seat along the edge of the room at Saturday’s meeting, not at the table, and spoke infrequently, according to attendees. He interjected memorably only once, to argue that the Flores agreement, which limits how long the government can detain immigrant children to 20 days, was creating a loophole for smugglers.Mr. Kushner at one point defended Mr. Miller, calling him an expert on the subject. White House aides chuckled when he noted Mr. Miller’s hard-line reputation as an immigration zealot was unfair. The Democrats, however, did not express any amusement. Mr. Kushner asked the Democrats at the table why they would not concede to changes in the Flores agreement, but Mr. Pence later clarified that changes were not a condition of their negotiations.At a news conference last week, Mr. Trump hinted that he might be willing to come to an agreement with Democrats on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, and addressing the issue of thousands of young immigrants who live in the country illegally. But the subject of a DACA-for-wall deal was never broached over the weekend, aides said.And when Democrats asked Mr. Pence about the possibility of the president declaring a “national emergency” in order to secure money to build a wall, as he floated to reporters on Sunday, Mr. Pence said the president has not yet made a decision.The White House made clear on Monday that Mr. Trump was standing firm on his insistence for a border wall. Ms. Sanders announced on Twitter that Mr. Trump would visit the southern border, to highlight the continuing “national security and humanitarian crisis.”An earlier version of this article misstated who offered a prayer on Sunday at a meeting on the shutdown attended by Democratic congressional staff members, Vice President Mike Pence and other White House officials. It was offered by a member of Senator Richard J. Durbin’s staff, not by a member of Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s staff.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael Tackett and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — As a partial government shutdown entered its third week, negotiations between Vice President Mike Pence and congressional aides from both parties yielded little progress on Saturday while the impact on government services and on federal workers was worsening by the day.“Not much headway made today,” President Trump conceded on Twitter, not long after the vice president’s office characterized the roughly two-hour talks, held next to the White House at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, as “productive.”V.P. Mike Pence and team just left the White House. Briefed me on their meeting with the Schumer/Pelosi representatives. Not much headway made today. Second meeting set for tomorrow. After so many decades, must finally and permanently fix the problems on the Southern Border!The two sides are scheduled to meet again Sunday afternoon, but there was little hope that the broad divide between Mr. Trump and Democrats over his demand for more than $5 billion for a border wall would be bridged anytime soon. Saturday’s talks came a day after Mr. Trump said the government shutdown could continue for “months or even years” if Democrats did not relent on their steadfast refusal to grant him the wall money.The negotiations on Saturday focused on priorities for security rather than a dollar figure for the border wall, the vice president’s office said. While Mr. Trump has stood by his $5.7 billion demand, Senate Democrats have offered $1.3 billion for border security, including fencing, while Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the top Senate Democrat, Chuck Schumer of New York, have repeatedly said that they will not agree to any wall funding. Ms. Pelosi has called a border wall an “immorality.”The vice president’s office said that Mr. Pence had reiterated the president’s position that any deal needed to include funding for the wall. The office also said that Democrats had requested additional information from the Department of Homeland Security about its needs to deal with border issues.Democratic staff members asked for a formal budget justification for the administration’s insistence on its $5.7 billion proposal, a Democratic official familiar with the discussion said, adding that Mr. Pence made clear that the White House would not budge from that figure. The Democrats told the vice president that there would be no movement on the dollar figure until after the government is reopened.It is unclear just what kind of authority Mr. Trump has granted Mr. Pence to speak for him in negotiations. Last month, when Mr. Pence made a $2.6 billion counteroffer to Democrats in an effort to avert the shutdown, Mr. Trump quickly shot down the proposal.During the talks on Saturday, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, offered a briefing on what the administration has deemed a “crisis” at the border. Ms. Nielsen had tried to give a similar briefing earlier in the week to congressional leaders and White House officials gathered in the Situation Room, but she was cut off by Ms. Pelosi, who questioned Ms. Nielsen’s facts.In addition to Ms. Nielsen, the vice president was joined on Saturday by Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, and Jared Kushner, a senior adviser to Mr. Trump. Mr. Kushner is said to have raised the prospect with Democratic lawmakers that if they give the president the full $5.7 billion in wall funding or something close to it, they might in exchange get an agreement for new protections for the young immigrants known as Dreamers. The prospect of such a deal has alarmed some conservatives.For his part, the president seemed to be goading Democrats with a morning tweet that implied that he was ready to talk with them at the White House, even though it was Mr. Trump who had announced on Friday that the meeting would be at the staff level.The president also repeated his claim that the bulk of federal workers who are going without pay are Democrats — a claim rebuffed by federal union leaders — but said their political affiliation was not relevant to him. On Friday, he had said that most federal workers supported his demand for a border wall and were willing to sacrifice their paychecks to achieve it.As the shutdown reached its 14th day, the finances of government agencies continued to show signs of strain. On Saturday, Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, said the agency had about one month’s funding left for some of its activities.There have also been a few new signs of fraying political fealty to the president among Republicans. On Friday, Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, became the third member of his party in the Senate to call for an end to the shutdown, joining Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado and Senator Susan Collins of Maine. All three are expected to face difficult re-election battles in 2020.In an op-ed article for the newspaper The Hill published Friday evening, Mr. Tillis encouraged Congress to strike a deal that would provide “long-term certainty to the DACA population” — the Dreamers brought to the United States as children — and “force out the extreme elements on either side of the aisle.”“When it comes to securing our borders, it’s important to note that the real solution is not going to be a big, literal physical wall, but rather an all-the-above, all-hands-on-deck approach,” he wrote, adding his support for solutions including “physical barriers and steel fences.”The op-ed came just a day after the campaign arm of the Senate Democrats released statements to local news media targeting Republican senators up for re-election.In a move to keep pressure on the president and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, Ms. Pelosi announced Saturday afternoon that House Democrats would begin passing individual appropriations bills next week to reopen all government agencies, beginning with legislation that would reopen the Internal Revenue Service.“This action is necessary so that the American people can receive their tax refunds on schedule,” Ms. Pelosi said in a statement. “The certainty of the tax returns of hard-working families should no longer be held hostage to the president.”Mr. McConnell has largely stayed on the sidelines in the shutdown fight, saying that any solution must be reached between Mr. Trump and Democrats. In an opinion column on Friday, The Courier-Journal of Louisville, the largest newspaper in Mr. McConnell’s home state, called on him to “get into the game” and end “a crisis that really doesn’t need to be happening.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFact Check During a news conference on Friday, President Trump insisted that most furloughed federal employees supported his wall, that Mexico is paying for it and that it would stop a horde of terrorists from crossing the border. None of that was true. By Linda Qiu and Michael TackettMost federal workers, even those with rent owed and bills due, would gladly forgo their paycheck as a measure of support for his $5.6 billion border wall, President Trump said on Friday.He also noted that Mexico would actually be paying for the wall through a new trade agreement, which at the very least raised the question of why the government had to be shut down over a funding dispute involving American tax dollars if the funding was coming from another country. And then there was a Plan C: He said he could use “emergency powers” to build the wall. The wall was needed for many reasons, Mr. Trump said. Stopping drug and human trafficking, and a nonspecific reference to a torrent of terrorists and coyotes easily flowing in over the southern border. “They drive right in, and they make a left,” he said.But there also was sunshine amid the gloom. Mr. Trump spoke of a stunningly positive jobs report and a stock market that soared, at least for a day. Lower gas prices? One person to thank.The purpose of the president’s hastily arranged, hourlong news conference in the Rose Garden was to give his side of the negotiations over a partial government shutdown that stretches into its third week on Saturday. And, for the record, Mr. Trump is not calling the partial closing of the government “a shutdown.”“I don’t call it a shutdown,” he said. “I call it doing what you have to do for the benefit and for the safety of our country.”The news conference was freewheeling, and the president seemed in high spirits, even with the government shuttered in many places. “Should we keep this going or not?” he said.Here are some takeaways and fact-checks. Mr. Trump has called for a concrete wall on the border with Mexico, though he denied it, telling reporters, “I said I was going to build a wall. I never said I’m going to build a concrete.” (Just four days ago, Mr. Trump tweeted that “an all concrete Wall was NEVER ABANDONED.”)Now, he said, steel might be the preferred material, suggesting that would also help a resurgent steel industry in the United States, and could be preferable for its see-through and more aesthetic qualities. “All of the border things that we’ll be building will be done right here in the good old USA by steel companies that were practically out of business when I came into office as president. And now, they’re thriving.” Later, he said, “the steel industry was almost dead.”"Dead" is an exaggeration. Steel production has been in decline, as has the number of employees in the industry. But the metals industry still employed over 360,000 workers and produced 80 million tons of raw steel in the year before Mr. Trump took office.At any rate, Mr. Trump continued, “we’ve already built a lot of the wall” and “renovated a tremendous amount of wall.” (The Trump administration has replaced some existing barriers with new barriers, and will begin constructing 14 miles of new wall in February. But to date, construction on his border wall has not started.)In his first meeting about a shutdown with Representative Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer in the Oval Office last month, the president forcefully said that he alone would own the shutdown. On Friday, he was selling shares in it. “You can call it the Schumer or the Pelosi or the Trump shutdown,” he said. “Doesn’t make any difference to me. It’s just words.”Could he reach a compromise with Democrats to end the shutdown by coupling wall funding with a pathway to citizenship for the young immigrants known as Dreamers? Mr. Trump responded that Democrats lost interest as soon as the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld an injunction against his administration’s termination of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. (A deal on the program and to avoid an earlier government shutdown in early 2018 faltered last January, after Mr. Trump made vulgar remarks on immigration. The court ruled on the case in November.)That was such a bad decision from the court, Mr. Trump asserted, that even his predecessor, “when he signed the DACA, with the executive order, made a statement to the effect, this isn’t going to work.” (President Barack Obama did not sign an executive order to implement the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. He announced it as a Department of Homeland Security policy in a speech in 2012. He did not say it would not work, but called it a “temporary stopgap.”)For federal workers who may need a safety net or financial assistance as they go without pay, Mr. Trump said “the safety net is going to be having a strong border,” especially because government employees support his wall. (A recent poll of more than 1,400 by Government Executive suggests the opposite: most oppose the shutdown and the wall.) The president said that the new trade deal with Mexico and Canada will yield billions of dollars for this country. “That is paying for the wall,” he said. “Many, many times over. In fact, what we save on the U.S.M.C.A., the new trade deal we have with Mexico and Canada, what we save on that just with Mexico will pay for the wall many times over, just in a period of a year, two years and three years. So I view that as absolutely Mexico is paying for the wall.” (Congress has yet to ratify the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, and it does not compel Mexico to pay for the wall. Whatever federal revenue it generates would come from American taxpayers, not Mexico.)And, Mr. Trump said, why shouldn’t Mexico pay for the wall through trade, given that “we are losing close to $100 billion a year on trade with Mexico.” (The United States had a $69 billion trade deficit with Mexico in 2017.)Mr. Trump also took another shot at the North American Free Trade Agreement that the new trade deal seeks to replace, arguing that “we lost millions of jobs” through Nafta. (The left-leaning Economic Policy Institute estimated that the United States lost 850,000 jobs because of Nafta. The Times was unable to find any credible estimate that supported Mr. Trump’s “millions” figure.)Asked about ongoing trade talks with Beijing, Mr. Trump reported that “China is paying us tremendous tariffs.” (The United States does not send China a bill for the cost of tariffs, which are often passed on to American importers or consumers.)China, by the way, “is the biggest beneficiary of Apple,” so Mr. Trump is not concerned that the company reduced its revenue forecast this week, sending stocks tumbling. Nonetheless, Mr. Trump said Apple is “investing $350 billion because of what we did with taxes and the incentives that we created in the United States.” (Apple was already on track to spend $275 billion in the United States over the next five years. After a $38 billion tax payment, the company’s investment would be roughly $37 billion.)After suggesting that terrorists were pouring into the country over wall-less portions of the border, Mr. Trump turned to Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, for specifics. She said there were 3,000 such terrorists “that we know about,” but said she could not divulge other information because it was classified.(The 3,000 figure referred to “special interest aliens” stopped at the border, a term that applies to people from any country that has exported or produced one terrorist, according to the libertarian Cato Institute. Besides this ambiguous figure, Mr. Trump has yet to provide evidence for his claim. The State Department said in a September report there is “no credible evidence” that terrorist groups had sent operatives to enter the United States through Mexico. The report warned of the vulnerability, but said it was more likely terrorist groups would seek other means of entry.)Mr. Trump said that the government would have to use its powers of eminent domain to take private land to build the wall when owners would not agree to sell. He said that’s how interstates, schools and other public buildings have been constructed.Many in his base disagree, especially in Texas where private property rights are often paramount.Mr. Trump said, mostly in jest, that he had raised the matter of impeachment with Ms. Pelosi, asking her why she did not use the border security issue as grounds. “And Nancy said we’re not looking to impeach you. I said that’s good, Nancy, that’s good.”He added, “You can’t impeach somebody that is doing a great job. That’s the way I view it.”Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu Michael Tackett covers national politics. He has written about politics for more than 30 years and has covered six presidential elections.  @tackettdc AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Peter BakerWASHINGTON — Before it became the chief sticking point in a government shutdown drama that threatens to consume his presidency at a critical moment, President Trump’s promise to build a wall on the southwestern border was a memory trick for an undisciplined candidate.As Mr. Trump began exploring a presidential run in 2014, his political advisers landed on the idea of a border wall as a mnemonic device of sorts, a way to make sure their candidate — who hated reading from a script but loved boasting about himself and his talents as a builder — would remember to talk about getting tough on immigration, which was to be a signature issue in his nascent campaign.“How do we get him to continue to talk about immigration?” Sam Nunberg, one of Mr. Trump’s early political advisers, recalled telling Roger J. Stone Jr., another adviser. “We’re going to get him to talk about he’s going to build a wall.”Talk Mr. Trump did, and the line drew rapturous cheers from conservative audiences, thrilling the candidate and soon becoming a staple of campaign speeches. Chants of “Build the wall!” echoed through arenas throughout the country.Now, Mr. Trump’s fixation with a border wall — the material embodiment of his keep-them-out immigration agenda — has run headlong into the new realities of divided government, pitting him against Democrats who reject the idea out of hand. The impasse is particularly remarkable given that even some immigration hard-liners do not regard the wall as their highest priority and fear that Mr. Trump’s preoccupation with it will prompt him to cut a deal that trades a relatively ineffectual measure for major concessions on immigration.“I’ve always thought it created a danger that he would trade almost anything in order to get the wall — I think that’s still a potential danger,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that argues for less immigration. “I’m still worried about that now.”That fear has been realized at times when Mr. Trump has explored a deal with Democrats on granting permanent legal status for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, known as Dreamers. The president has always walked away at the last moment from committing to preserving the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, but on Friday, FAIR, an anti-immigration group, warned him again that it would be a mistake.To many conservative activists who have pressed for decades for sharp reductions in both illegal and legal immigration — and some of the Republican lawmakers who are allied with them — a physical barrier on the border with Mexico is barely relevant, little more than a footnote to a long list of policy changes they believe are needed to fix a broken system.The disconnect is at the heart of the dilemma facing Mr. Trump as he labors to find a way out of an impasse that has shuttered large parts of the government and cost 800,000 federal employees their pay. Having spent more than four years — first as a candidate and then as president — whipping his core supporters into a frenzy over the idea of building a border wall, Mr. Trump finds himself in a political box of his own making.Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.In transforming the wall into a powerful emblem of his anti-immigration message, Mr. Trump has made the proposal politically untouchable for Democrats, who have steadfastly refused to fund it, complicating the chances of any compromise.“As a messaging strategy, it was pretty successful,” Mr. Krikorian said. “The problem is, you got elected; now what do you do? Having made it his signature issue, Trump handed the Democrats a weapon against him.”The dynamic has been on vivid display this past week as Mr. Trump has argued that there can be no deal to reopen the government unless his wall is paid for, while Democrats, now in control of the House, have refused in ever sharper terms.“A wall is an immorality — it’s not who we are as a nation,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Thursday. “This is not a wall between Mexico and the United States that the president is creating here; it’s a wall between reality and his constituents, his supporters.”Last month, in private comments to Democratic lawmakers after an Oval Office confrontation with Mr. Trump, Ms. Pelosi said the wall was “like a manhood thing for him.”Yet it has also become an outsize symbol in the other direction for Democrats, many of whom supported at least some sort of barrier along the border in the past but now cast Mr. Trump’s wall as a travesty. Sixty-four Democrats in the House and 26 in the Senate voted in 2006 for the Secure Fence Act, which provided for hundreds of miles of fencing along the border. Among them were Senators Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Chuck Schumer.“The only things that have changed is the situation at the border is worse and Donald Trump got elected,” said Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor.Ms. Conway said Mr. Trump had become so committed to a wall because it would not only prevent the entry of many illegal immigrants and stem the flow of drugs, but also discourage migrants from coming in the first place.“The reason he’s focused on the wall is he thinks you need a very robust physical barrier at the border that you can’t climb over, slide under, drive through or walk around,” she said. “He believes it’s got to be something that’s a deterrent that stops people from taking these perilous journeys.”Beyond the symbolism, Democrats now argue that a wall is an expensive and ineffective means of curbing illegal immigration. The majority of undocumented immigrants are people who overstay visas, not people who sneak across the border. A report released in March by Democrats on the Senate Homeland Security Committee found that Border Patrol agents on the front lines said they needed more technology and additional personnel to curb illegal immigration and drug traffic, with less than one half of one percent mentioning a wall.Mr. Schumer, now the Senate Democratic leader, has insisted for two years that any spending agreements contain language barring federal money for Mr. Trump’s wall. Republican leaders went along each time, even as the president became increasingly irate, once coming close to vetoing a spending package on the day of the White House signing ceremony.While most Republicans refuse to say so publicly for fear of angering Mr. Trump, many share the view that the wall is only a piece — and nowhere near the most important one — of a broader set of actions needed to overhaul the immigration system, including cuts to legal immigration, tighter standards for granting asylum and better enforcement.Mick Mulvaney, Mr. Trump’s acting chief of staff, gave voice to that position in 2015, when he was a congressman from South Carolina, telling a local radio station that Mr. Trump, at the time a presidential candidate, had an overly simplistic view of tackling immigration.“The fence is an easy thing to sell politically,” Mr. Mulvaney said then. “It’s an easy thing for someone who doesn’t follow the issue very closely to say, ‘Oh, well, that will just solve everything, build the fence.’ The fence doesn’t solve the problem.”“Just to say ‘build the darn fence’ and have that be the end of an immigration discussion is absurd and almost childish,” Mr. Mulvaney said.John F. Kelly, Mr. Trump’s former chief of staff, enraged Mr. Trump last year when he privately told a group of Democratic lawmakers that the president had not been “fully informed” when he proposed a border wall during his campaign, and had since “evolved” under Mr. Kelly’s tutelage. “The Wall is the Wall,” the president responded in an angry tweet contradicting his top aide.“To be honest, it’s not a wall,” Mr. Kelly said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times last month as he prepared to leave the White House, adding that the administration had abandoned the idea of a “solid concrete wall early on.” His comments prompted another irate tweet from Mr. Trump. “An all concrete Wall was NEVER ABANDONED,” he wrote.Mr. Trump himself has at other times said he is not necessarily wedded to a concrete wall but open to different forms of barriers at different points along the border, including steel slats. “I never said, ‘I’m going to build a concrete” wall, he said on Friday, rewriting history. “I said I’m going to build a wall.”NumbersUSA, another conservative group that presses for stricter immigration policies, circulated an article last month suggesting that Mr. Trump drop his wall demand in favor of a plan to mandate that all employers use E-Verify, an electronic system that checks immigration status for prospective employees.The wall “has sucked political capital from the pursuit of other, and arguably better, means to deter illegal immigrants,” wrote Heather Mac Donald of the Manhattan Institute.Yet Mr. Trump has tethered himself to the wall and shows no sign of letting go.Ann Coulter, who along with Rush Limbaugh, Matt Drudge and other conservative commentators has pressed Mr. Trump to live up to his campaign promise, said the focus on the wall was not to be to the exclusion of other policies aimed at stemming illegal immigration.“We want that stuff too — but we also want a wall,” she said in an email on Friday. “The chant at every campaign rally wasn’t, ‘Enforce E-Verify!’ ‘Tax remittances!’” she added, referring to a proposal to tax cash payments sent by immigrants to their families in Mexico and Central America.Advisers said the president became absorbed by the idea of a wall because it was the most memorable and tangible promise he made while stumping for the White House in 2016.“He wants to call it a wall because that’s what he campaigned on,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump’s. “He’s very obsessed about carrying out his campaign promises — I think to a degree that’s unhealthy — but that’s important to him, and that’s not a bad thing.”Mr. Ruddy and some other advisers argue that Mr. Trump has more room to maneuver than he thinks, because his base would accept his word that some form of additional security along the border was the equivalent of a wall in terms of effectiveness.“Listening to Rush Limbaugh and Ann Coulter on this is a mistake,” Mr. Ruddy said. “I don’t think the president’s base moves even one inch from him even if he doesn’t get a wall. They know where his heart is, they know where his mind is.”Michael D’Antonio, a biographer of Mr. Trump, said the wall appealed to the builder and brander in him. “I think he hears the beep, beep, beep of a cement truck backing up and the product being poured and the wall rising,” Mr. D’Antonio said. “He can grasp that stuff. He loves it.”It would be a presidential legacy that future generations could see and touch, an accomplishment that would last for ages. “I think he’d like it being called the Great Wall of Trump,” Mr. D’Antonio said, with a plaque to the president who built it “every mile or so.”The simplicity of the concept made it a powerful sales pitch on the campaign trail. “It’s a four-letter thing,” Mr. D’Antonio said. “It’s an idea that can be expressed in a single word, and I think that has great appeal to him as a marketer. It’s sort of ‘crooked Hillary’ or ‘lock her up,’ but it’s even better.”OpinionBruce AckermanAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — The Senate will hold competing votes on Thursday on President Trump’s proposal to spend $5.7 billion on a border wall and on a Democratic bill that would fund the government through Feb. 8 without a wall. It will be the first time the Senate has stepped off the sidelines to try to end the monthlong government shutdown.The procedural move by Senators Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, and Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, is the first time the parties have agreed to do virtually anything since the shutdown began Dec. 22. With most Republicans united behind Mr. Trump’s insistence that any legislation to reopen the government include money for a border wall and most Democrats opposed to the linkage, neither measure is expected to draw the 60 votes required to advance.That means Friday is likely to come and go without action to end the shutdown, forcing 800,000 federal workers to go without a paycheck for the second time this month.But there was hope that the votes could usher in a more cooperative phase in a crisis that has so far been marked almost entirely by partisan posturing; if both measures fall short, the votes could add new energy to efforts to negotiate a bipartisan compromise. With the shutdown now in its fifth week, the pressure is growing on both parties to reopen the government.“People are saying, isn’t there a way out of this mess? Isn’t there a way to relieve the burden on the 800,000 federal workers not getting paid? Isn’t there a way to get government services open first and then debate what we should do for border security?” Mr. Schumer said Tuesday on the Senate floor after Mr. McConnell announced the votes. “Well, now there’s a way.”Still, Mr. Trump remained in a bitter spat with Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, over his forthcoming State of the Union address, underlining the partisan divide that has helped to fuel the stalemate. Ms. Pelosi has suggested that the president postpone his prime-time speech to a joint session of Congress scheduled for Jan. 29 in light of the partial shutdown, but Mr. Trump does not appear inclined to do so.A White House official wrote to security officials on Capitol Hill late Sunday requesting a walk-through on Monday to prepare for the speech, in what two aides described as a bid to pressure Ms. Pelosi to issue Mr. Trump a formal invitation. But Monday was a federal holiday, and the meeting never occurred — and there was no word from the speaker on how she planned to proceed.White House aides, not knowing how the State of the Union dispute will be resolved, have begun to prepare for two different speeches, in case one is not delivered at the Capitol, according to people familiar with the discussions.One possibility that has been explored is an Oval Office address, although Mr. Trump is aware that the brief one he delivered this month fared poorly in polls and in viewership ratings, making it less palatable to him. Another option, they said, is a rally speech somewhere outside Washington, but aides are concerned that would not be distinct enough from the type of event the president routinely holds.On Tuesday evening, Ms. Pelosi took another swipe at the president, using the phrase “Trump Shutdown” — which irked Mr. Trump in their televised Oval Office meeting last year — as she implored Republicans to vote for the Democrat-backed spending bill.“On Thursday, the Senate will have the opportunity to put a bipartisan bill on the president’s desk to reopen government and end this senseless shutdown,” Ms. Pelosi said.In the Senate, Mr. Trump’s proposal, which he promoted in a televised address on Saturday as a bipartisan compromise to pair wall funding with temporary legal protections for some immigrants, is facing all but certain death after White House officials conceded privately on Tuesday they had tacked on controversial proposals anathema to Democrats that would block many migrants from seeking asylum.The Republican legislation, unveiled Monday night, would provide $5.7 billion in wall funding and large spending increases for the detention and removal of immigrants, as well as three-year provisional protections for 700,000 of the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers and for about 325,000 immigrants mostly from Latin American countries and Haiti who have been living in the United States under Temporary Protected Status.As sweeteners to entice Democrats to back the measure, Mr. McConnell added $12.7 billion in disaster aid and an extension of the Violence Against Women Act, a measure that expired last year when government funding lapsed.“The opportunity to end all this is staring us right in the face,” Mr. McConnell said Tuesday, calling the president’s proposal “a comprehensive and bipartisan offer.”But the measure also included several changes to asylum law, long advocated by Stephen Miller, Mr. Trump’s senior adviser and an architect of his immigration agenda, that would make it more difficult for people to seek refuge in the United States from persecution and violence at home. Among them were provisions to bar Central American children from claiming asylum inside the United States, requiring them instead to do so in their own countries, and allow any of them to be quickly sent back to their own countries.Another revision would create a host of new grounds for deeming an asylum claim “frivolous,” including if the migrant seeking protection was also trying to obtain work authorization, had used a fraudulent document — knowingly or unknowingly — or did not file in a timely way.Mr. Schumer rejected the plan as meant not to forge a compromise but to shift blame away from the president for the shutdown stalemate, calling the asylum changes a “poison pill.”“The president’s proposal is one-sided, harshly partisan and was made in bad faith,” Mr. Schumer said, adding that the measure was “not a compromise; it’s more hostage-taking.”The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected.A senior Trump administration official who insisted on anonymity to describe internal deliberations said on Tuesday that the asylum provisions were added at the behest of the Department of Homeland Security once it became clear that Democrats were going to oppose Mr. Trump’s original proposal.But even the provisions ostensibly meant to attract Democratic support for the proposal fell short. While Republicans say the protections are drawn from the Bridge Act, a bipartisan measure, that bill would in fact protect hundreds of thousands more Dreamers, who were brought to the United States illegally as children. The Republican proposal would shield only those who applied for and received work permits under Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, created by President Barack Obama, which Mr. Trump rescinded in 2017.The proposal also narrows the group of DACA recipients eligible for the temporary protection, adding several requirements that applicants would have to meet, including an annual income threshold.Federal court decisions have kept DACA in place, and on Tuesday, the Supreme Court again declined the Trump administration’s request to review the legality of the program, almost certainly keeping it in place for the rest of the year. That decision by the court significantly devalued Mr. Trump’s overture to Democrats resisting wall funding.Mr. Trump unilaterally did away with both DACA and several grants of Temporary Protected Status, leading Mr. Schumer to denounce the legislative proposal to revive them as the price for reopening the government and funding a border wall as “bargaining with stolen goods.” Mr. Schumer’s proposal would add disaster aid to previously passed House measures to fund the government at current levels through Feb. 8.The Democratic proposal might have some appeal to a handful of moderate Republicans who have expressed concern about the continuing shutdown, but to prevail, all Democrats would need to vote for it, and they would need the support of 13 Republicans, a tall order.Even as the Senate planned for high-stakes votes on Thursday, the House was preparing to advance its own pair of proposals starting Wednesday to reopen the government. Democrats scheduled votes on a package of six spending bills negotiated between House and Senate Republicans and Democrats that would include funding for immigration judges and infrastructure improvements at ports of entry. They also planned a vote on a separate stopgap spending bill that would fund the Department of Homeland Security at current levels through Feb. 28.The measures are similar to legislation that the House has passed repeatedly over the past few weeks, only to meet with a blockade in the Republican-controlled Senate, where Mr. McConnell has refused to take them up.A group of centrist House Democrats, led by Representative Elaine Luria of Virginia, is urging Ms. Pelosi to go further. In a letter being circulated among Democrats, Ms. Luria, who defeated a Republican last year in a military-dominated district, called on the speaker to offer Mr. Trump action on his wall demands in exchange for agreement to reopen the government. Under the plan, Ms. Pelosi would guarantee a vote by the end of February on border security spending, as well as immigration proposals, including protections for DACA and T.P.S. recipients.“We understand that this shutdown was not created by the 116th Congress, but it is our job to fix it,” the letter says. “We promised our constituents that we would seek bipartisan solutions, and we feel that this proposal would gain bipartisan support and allow a transparent process to evaluate the true needs of border security and provide much-needed reform to our immigration process.”But Mr. Trump rejected a similar proposal by a group of Senate Republicans and Democrats this month, after White House officials said the president was unwilling to drop his demand for wall funding and reopen the government on the mere promise of a freewheeling legislative process that might fail to produce a measure he could sign.An earlier version of this article misstated the day on which the partial government shutdown began. It was Dec. 22, not Dec. 23.Annie Karni and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court took no action on Tuesday on the Trump administration’s plans to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation.The court’s inaction almost certainly means it will not hear the administration’s challenge in its current term, which ends in June. The justices’ next private conference to consider petitions seeking review is scheduled for Feb. 15.Even were they to agree to hear the case then, it would not be argued until after the next term starts in October under the court’s usual procedures. A decision would probably not arrive until well into 2020.The move left the program in place and denied negotiating leverage to President Trump, who has said he wanted to use a Supreme Court victory in the case in negotiations with Democrats over immigration issues.Mr. Trump tried to end the program in 2017, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But federal judges have ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, while legal challenges move forward.In November, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, ruled against the administration. It acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations but said that the legal rationale offered by the Trump administration did not withstand scrutiny. The court also questioned “the cruelty and wastefulness of deporting productive young people to countries with which they have no ties.”Mr. Trump has criticized that ruling and has said he would be vindicated in the Supreme Court. He also predicted that a Supreme Court victory in the case, United States Department of Homeland Security v. Regents of the University of California, No. 18-587, would strengthen his hand in negotiations with Democratic lawmakers over immigration issues.“I think it’s going to be overturned in the United States Supreme Court, and I think it’s going to be overwhelmingly overturned,” Mr. Trump said at a cabinet meeting this month, adding, “So if we win that case — and I say this for all to hear — we’ll be easily able to make a deal on DACA and the wall as a combination.”Mr. Trump has taken inconsistent positions on the program. Even as he tried to end it, he called upon Congress to give legal status and an eventual path to citizenship to the young immigrants, who are sometimes called “Dreamers.” More recently, he offered to extend the program in exchange for concessions on a border wall.The administration has argued that the program, instituted by the Obama administration, was an unconstitutional exercise of executive authority, relying on a ruling from the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, concerning a related program. The Supreme Court deadlocked, 4 to 4, in an appeal of that ruling.But the Ninth Circuit said the two programs differed in important ways, undermining the administration’s legal analysis. The appeals court affirmed a nationwide injunction ordering the administration to retain major elements of the program while the case moved forward. Such nationwide injunctions, which have been used by courts to block executive actions in both the Obama and the Trump administrations, have been the subject of much commentary and criticism.Also on Tuesday, the administration told the court that it would ask it to hear an appeal of a trial judge’s ruling barring the addition of a question on citizenship to the next census. The administration’s filing said it would ask the justices to bypass the appeals court and put the case on a very fast track, culminating in arguments in April or May.That was necessary, the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, wrote, because “the government must finalize the census questionnaire by the end of June 2019 to enable it to be printed on time.”“It is exceedingly unlikely that there is sufficient time for review in both the court of appeals and in this court by that deadline,” Mr. Francisco wrote.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — The Senate is poised as early as Tuesday to act on a Trump-backed measure to end the partial government shutdown, but a bill promoted as a compromise to pair the president’s wall with legal protections for some immigrants would also severely restrict migrants’ ability to claim asylum, drawing fierce opposition from immigrant rights groups.Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, is planning on Tuesday to put the measure on the Senate’s agenda, setting up a likely vote on Thursday, absent any agreement from Democrats to act on it sooner. But its prospects in the Senate are dim, and with the shutdown now in its fifth week, 800,000 federal workers are almost certain to miss their second paycheck on Friday.The 1,031-page bill, made public on Monday evening by the Senate Appropriations Committee, would fund shuttered federal agencies through the end of the fiscal year. It includes $5.7 billion for the border wall that Mr. Trump has proposed and large increases for detention of and removal of immigrants, as well as three-year provisional protections for 700,000 of the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers, and 300,000 immigrants mostly from Latin American countries who have been living in the United States under Temporary Protected Status.But while Republicans say the protections are drawn from the Bridge Act, a bipartisan measure, that bill would in fact protect hundreds of thousands more Dreamers, who were brought to the United States illegally as children. The Republican proposal would shield only those who applied for and received work permits under Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, created by President Barack Obama, which Mr. Trump rescinded in 2017.[Senate leaders have reached a deal that can end the government shutdown by the weekend.]Federal court decisions have kept DACA in place, and on Tuesday, the Supreme Court again declined the Trump administration’s request to review the legality of the program, almost certainly keeping it in place for the rest of the year. That decision by the court significantly devalued Mr. Trump’s overture to Democrats resisting wall funding.The new Senate measure also includes several provisions that are meant to make it more difficult for migrants to claim asylum in the United States, a legal process that allows people fleeing violence and persecution in their home countries to seek refuge. The changes have been top priorities of Stephen Miller, the conservative White House aide who crafted much of Mr. Trump’s immigration agenda.It would bar Central American children from seeking asylum in the United States, instead requiring them to apply in their own countries, in what the legislation describes as a program that “reduces the incentive for such persons to make the dangerous journey to the United States southern border to request asylum.”But Democrats and immigrants’ rights advocates denounce the plan as cruel. While the Obama administration created a similar program to expedite the claims of Central American children seeking asylum, it never moved to block such minors from applying inside the United States.“These are children who are often desperately fleeing terrible violence back home,” said Representative Diana DeGette, Democrat of Colorado. “They are literally running for their lives and asking for our country to help. Instead of offering them help, this proposal would require border officials to turn a deaf ear to their desperate pleas and send these kids back to the very places they just risked their lives to escape.”A separate provision would allow immigration authorities to quickly remove Central American minors seeking asylum in the United States, a change to an anti-child-trafficking statute that some scholars said would violate international law.“In effect, we are looking at the rapid expulsion of these children,” said Greg Chen of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. “The effect of the law will be to send people back into harm’s way, which would be a violation of international law.”The measure also adds a high bar for asylum claims across the board, mandating that they be deemed “in the national interest.” It would introduce a host of new grounds for deeming an asylum claim “frivolous,” including if the migrant seeking protection was also trying to obtain work authorization, had used a fraudulent document — knowingly or unknowingly — or did not file in a timely way.Republicans are arguing that the bill would do precisely what Democrats have been demanding: reopen the federal government immediately. As an added sweetener to Democrats, the measure also includes $12.7 billion for disaster relief, and would renew the Violence Against Women Act, which authorizes and funds services for victims of domestic violence — and expired at the end of last year.But the Senate math does not work in Mr. McConnell’s favor. He would need seven Democrats to join with all 53 Republicans for the measure to pass. But there are no more than a handful of Democrats in Republican-leaning states — Senators Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, Doug Jones of Alabama and Joe Manchin III of West Virginia — who might vote in favor.A spokesman for Mr. Manchin said the senator would remain undecided until he saw the text of the measure. Ms. Sinema and Mr. Jones have not announced their intentions.House Democrats are also planning this week to bring up a package of legislation to reopen the government and provide some funding for border-related operations, including infrastructure improvements at ports of entry and immigration judges. They are still weighing whether to bring up their own border security proposal as part of a measure to fund the Department of Homeland Security. But given that none of their plans include money for a wall, Mr. McConnell has said he will not bring them up in the Senate.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — A pair of measures to reopen the government — one with President Trump’s border wall, the other without it — failed in the Senate on Thursday, sending lawmakers from both parties into frenzied efforts to forge a compromise that could end the nearly six-week partial shutdown.In back-to-back votes, the Senate first blocked Mr. Trump’s proposal to add $5.7 billion for his border wall to legislation to resume funding for the government, then turned back a Democratic measure that omitted the wall. Neither side was able to garner the 60 votes needed to advance its bill.But the results undercut the president by revealing that his proposal drew less support in the Republican-controlled Senate than did the Democrats’ plan, which attracted a half-dozen Republicans willing to break with Mr. Trump. And with the shutdown reaching a grim milestone on Friday as 800,000 federal workers miss a second consecutive paycheck, pressure is mounting in both parties to find a solution.In a lunch meeting before the votes, Republican senators vented their concern to Vice President Mike Pence about the prolonged shutdown, according to two people familiar with the discussion, which grew tense at times. Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, who has previously counseled against allowing government funding to lapse, was among those arguing that it should never have occurred, they said.Almost as soon as the roll calls were finished in the packed Senate chamber, a round of telephone calls and conversations began among Mr. Trump, Republican and Democratic congressional leaders and other senators who have been quietly searching for weeks for a bipartisan compromise to end the gridlock.The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected.“Don’t give up hope, because now is the time that we all must come together to address these issues,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, one of the six Republicans who voted for the Democratic measure. “But you can’t do it when the government is shut down.”Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, announced on the Senate floor that he had spoken with the president, who had said he would be open to a three-week stopgap measure to reopen the government and provide time for a broader border security deal, as long as it included some of his priorities.“It gets us back in the ballgame,” Mr. Graham said, as a group of 16 senators — eight from each party — rose in turn to endorse the idea of the three-week spending measure.But hanging over those talks was continued uncertainty about the president’s bottom line for a deal. Mr. Trump spoke positively of talks between Mr. McConnell and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, but he said was not dropping his demand for wall funding.“One of the ideas suggested is they open, they pay some sort of prorated down payment on the wall, which you need,” the president told reporters at the White House. “If they come to a reasonable agreement,” he said of Mr. McConnell and Mr. Schumer, “I would support it, yes.”He again mentioned “other alternatives” that he could turn to if he did not secure wall funding from Congress, presumably an emergency declaration that could allow him to shift funds from the military or Army Corps of Engineers.But Democrats were unlikely to agree to that. “Senator Schumer and Senate Democrats have made clear to Leader McConnell and Republicans that they will not support funding for the wall, prorated or otherwise,” said Justin Goodman, a spokesman for Mr. Schumer. Others emphasized that they shared the president’s goal of adding security measures at the border, as long as he would first agree to end the shutdown, and House Democrats were circulating proposals for a “smart wall,” with drones, sensors and some additional fencing, but no edifice from the Pacific to the Gulf of Mexico.“What we have put on the table is our reputation as legislators, that given three weeks, we’ll come up with a successful conclusion on the border security issue,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland.Urgency is rising in both parties to reopen the government, even if that means making concessions their leaders might not have considered a few weeks ago. House Democrats, prodded on by rank-and-file lawmakers from conservative districts who are eager to promote their own border security ideas, are poised as early as Friday to outline more than $5 billion in measures they support, a far larger sum than they initially entertained.“We’re not that far apart,” said Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, imploring members of his own party and Democrats to “stop talking past each other.”Recent polls have found that the ordeal is taking a heavy toll on Mr. Trump’s approval rating, including among his core supporters. It has also created a damaging narrative for his administration, fueling a perception that the president — who often promotes his concern for the country’s “forgotten men and women” — and his team are unconcerned with the plight of working Americans who are suffering during the breach in government operations.In separate appearances over the past 48 hours, the commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross; the president’s chief economic adviser, Larry Kudlow; and Lara Trump, his daughter-in-law, all made comments seen by some as callous toward federal workers who have now gone more than a month without pay.“I don’t really quite understand why” those employees are lining up at food banks, Mr. Ross said on CNBC. He suggested they could go to a bank to get a loan to cover lost wages.Democrats jumped on the comments.“Is this the ‘let them eat cake’ kind of attitude,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi said of Mr. Ross’ confusion, “or call your father for money?” The second remark was a version of one she made to Mr. Trump in the Situation Room this month, when she tartly noted that the people affected by the shutdown did not have the luxury of being able to depend financially on a parent.The Democratic funding bill included $14 billion in disaster aid, but otherwise it was similar to one the Senate approved unanimously in December, only to see Mr. Trump reject it and the House cancel a planned vote on it. Republican views in the Senate have shifted sharply since then to reflect the president’s.Mr. Trump’s proposal paired $5.7 billion in wall funding with temporary legal protections for some immigrants and measures to make it more difficult to claim asylum in the United States. Only one Democrat, Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, crossed party lines to vote for the measure. Two Republican senators, Mike Lee of Utah and Tom Cotton of Arkansas, voted against it, considering it too lenient to immigrants.Mr. Trump’s plan was loosely modeled after an idea that was the centerpiece of quiet bipartisan talks to strike a compromise over the past several weeks to end the shutdown. Among the ideas discussed was legislation that would pair money for border security with permanent legal status for Dreamers, the immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children who stand to lose their deportation protections and work permits after Mr. Trump rescinded the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, created by President Barack Obama in 2012.While it included some of those components, the measure that failed on Thursday was dismissed as a nonstarter by Democratic leaders because it substantially narrowed DACA eligibility, and extended it for only three years, while making major changes to asylum law that would make it harder for migrants fleeing violence and persecution, including children from Central America, to find refuge in the United States. It would also extend three-year reprieves for those living in the United States under Temporary Protected Status — granted in times of conflict or natural disaster — who stand to be removed after Mr. Trump ended their protections.Senator Doug Jones, Democrat of Alabama, said he had considered supporting the president’s proposal after he described it in a televised address from the White House, but found the asylum provisions “unacceptable.”“When I saw what the president had added to the plan he announced just five days ago, particularly as it pertains to the limitations and additional hardships placed on families and children who are legitimately seeking refuge in this country from violence in their own countries, and doing so through the legal asylum process, I could not vote for it despite my consistent support for stronger border security,” Mr. Jones said in a statement.House leaders had kept their chamber in session through the afternoon to leave room for the possibility that the Democratic measure would prevail in the Senate, and they could call a vote on it later Thursday and send it to the White House. But that never happened, and rank-and-file Democrats, many of whom had marched across the Capitol to the Senate chamber to witness the votes for themselves, spent the afternoon instead highlighting the stories of people devastated by the shutdown.The House took separate action earlier Thursday to pass legislation to fund the Department of Homeland Security through Feb. 28, with all but five Republicans voting “no.” One freshman Democrat, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, also voted against it because it would reopen Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which she wants closed.Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEl EspaceThis week in El Espace: returning to the place you left as a child, the end of the L.A. teachers’ strike and the triumph of Yalitza Aparicio.By Concepción de LeónEl Espace is a column dedicated to news and culture relevant to Latinx communities. Expect politics, arts, analysis, personal essays and more. ¿Lo mejor? It’ll be in Spanish and English, so you can forward it to your tía, your primo Lalo or anyone else (read: everyone).On trips back to the campo where my parents grew up, and where I spent the first few years of my life, I rarely need to introduce myself. Many stop me on my way to the colmado or a relative’s house to ask, “¿Y es que tú no te acuerdas de mi?” But I never do recognize them. I left when I was a toddler, so while they see a lineage in my face — my mother’s eyes, my father’s nose — they are strangers to me. And while my aunts, who grew up carrying bath water in buckets from the river and walking around barefoot in the grass, can name all the flowers (framboyán, buganvilla, cayena) in the vast, lush backyard of their childhood, I have to ask questions, taking notes on my iPhone so I can learn to describe this place.For an immigrant (or a descendant of one) growing up in America, it can be difficult to determine when or where one’s story begins. Many feel groundless and displaced, existing between two cultures and languages. The Chicana scholar Gloria Anzaldúa described this feeling as a third space, the “borderlands,” in her groundbreaking work of feminist and cultural theory, “Borderlands/La Frontera: The New Mestiza.” A common refrán puts it more plainly: ni de aquí, ni de allá (neither from here, nor from there).Most Latinos feel a strong connection to their country of origin: More than 60 percent describe themselves in relation to their ancestral homeland (as Mexican or Colombian-American, for example) or engage in transnational activities like sending money back home, calling family members regularly or traveling back to visit. In my experience, though, it always feels like a negotiation of two identities. In New York, I am a black Dominican; in Santo Domingo, I am an American.Geraldine Isabelle Abad, a Dominican-American who plans tours for people visiting Cuba and the Dominican Republic, said that taking solo trips to her family’s country of origin has helped her integrate the different parts of her heritage. “It was eye-opening,” she said in a recent call. “It made me understand that a Dominican is not just one thing. We’re complex and diverse. There are different cultures here.” She mentioned the community of hikers she encountered while hiking Pico Duarte, the Caribbean’s highest summit, and the social justice activists creating safe spaces for queer artists in the capital as examples of the country’s cultural diversity.Being apart from her family living in the Dominican Republic wasn’t easy. “Our community values here are so strong, and that’s a gift, but it makes it hard for us to grow our own self-awareness,” Ms. Abad said. And for women in particular, there’s “that fear that a woman should have somebody to accompany her. It’s almost radical for a woman to be alone and traveling. People are afraid for us.” She hopes to dispel the misconception among Dominican-Americans that the island is unsafe outside of Punta Cana, so she created the Dominican Diaspora Heritage Tours, a culturally immersive experience curated for Dominicans living elsewhere.Reconnecting with our native countries on our own terms is one way to merge our present-day selves with our family history. A friend from New York offered another idea: She has only felt fully herself within the four walls of her apartment, the home she built after leaving home. Maybe belonging isn’t found, but crafted.Here are more stories to read this week. SUPREME COURT SIDESTEPS DECISION ON DACAThe program will remain in place (for now), and a decision about its future likely will not be made until 2020.INDIGENOUS REPRESENTATION AT THE OSCARSYalitza Aparicio, the breakout star of Alfonso Cuarón’s “Roma,” received an Oscar nomination for her role in the film. It’s kind of a big deal.A WIN FOR L.A. TEACHERSThe strikes that began last week ended on Tuesday, after the Los Angeles teachers’ union reached an agreement with the school district that will add more support staff to schools and place a cap on class sizes.EL CHAPO AND THE BORDER WALLPresident Trump recently claimed that a border wall could stop the flow of drugs into the country from Mexico, but 10 weeks of testimony at the trial of the drug lord Joaquín Guzmán Loera, better known as El Chapo, tell a different story.HEIGHTENED TENSIONS IN VENEZUELATens of thousands of Venezuelans hit the streets on Wednesday to protest President Nicolás Maduro, heeding the call of a young leader for the opposition party, Juan Guaidó, who declared himself interim president after criticizing Maduro as an illegitimate dictator. Guaidó has so far gotten backing and recognition as the formal leader from various counties in Latin America as well as the United States.As we reflect on Martin Luther King Jr.’s legacy this week, this essay about “the talk” many black people receive from their parents about how their skin color will affect their lives feels particularly poignant. “You are going to have to fight to be treated equal. Even to be treated fairly,” the writer’s father told her when she was 13. But in addition to offering “a warning,” he also encouraged her to see her race as a point of pride. “I want you to remember, you are lucky to be black,” he said. “Be proud, but be careful.”Do you have suggestions for El Espace? Want to receive it as a newsletter? Let me know: elespace@nytimes.comConcepción de León is the digital staff writer covering literary news and culture for the Books Desk. Separately, she launched El Espace for the Styles section, a weekly column in which she writes about news and culture for a Latinx audience. She previously worked for Glamour magazine.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAn arcane 1946 law has proved a roadblock. By one count, 30 big regulations have been challenged, and the administration has lost 28 times. By Margot Sanger-KatzEver since President Trump took office, his appointees have directed federal agencies to draft regulations meant to delay or reverse policies of the Obama administration.Nearly all the proposals have been tripped up by the same arcane 1946 law governing administrative policies. Just last week, two signature administration actions — to add a question about citizenship status to the 2020 census, and to allow employers to avoid covering birth control for their workers if they object to it — have been stymied by rulings under the law.That law, the Administrative Procedure Act, was written to make sure that the executive branch followed some basic steps when it wanted to change policies. Over time, courts have given it additional teeth by requiring regulators to follow certain processes and conduct certain analyses before making changes. The Trump administration appears to have repeatedly failed to hew to those standards.“I think there was a lot of corner cutting by the administration,” said Josh Blackman, an associate professor at the South Texas College of Law in Houston, who has been critical of shortcuts in the regulatory process by both the Trump and Obama administrations.An analysis by the Institute for Policy Integrity at New York University School of Law shows that more than 90 percent of court challenges to major Trump deregulatory actions have been successful so far. By the institute’s count, 30 big rules have been challenged, and the courts have found for the litigants 28 times.Some of those rulings may change after appeals to higher courts, but administrative law experts said even the string of lower-court rulings was unusual. In a typical administration, the government wins on such challenges around 70 percent of the time, said Richard Revesz, a law professor at N.Y.U. who specializes in environmental law. “This is truly aberrational,” he said.The law gives federal agencies a lot of latitude to write regulations, but it says that major actions have to follow certain steps. For big changes, agencies are supposed to go through what’s called “notice and comment”: They must issue a proposal, let the public respond with ideas, then incorporate feedback into a final version.A lot of the losses came because the administration skipped those steps, instead announcing that it would pause or reverse pending rules — or that some emergency conditions justified an instant regulatory change. An earlier version of the contraceptive rule, and several environmental rules, including a suspension of Obama-era methane standards, were attempted without notice and comment.But even some Trump policies that have followed the usual regulatory steps have been found to run afoul of the law’s standards for administrative process. The law says that the executive branch should be allowed to interpret the law as long as its decisions aren’t “arbitrary” and “capricious.” “It’s a core protection against arbitrary governance,” said Gillian Metzger, a professor at Columbia Law School who studies administrative law. Under modern case law, that means that agencies need to conduct analyses of the rule’s consequences and address serious critiques. But it’s still a standard that scholars say is quite deferential to agency preferences, once regulators do the work.An attempt to allow Kentucky to impose work requirements on Medicaid beneficiaries was knocked down in June for failing to pass the test. The judge ruled that the administration had failed to adequately consider the possible negative consequences of the policy — primarily, that an estimated 95,000 poor Kentuckians would lose their health insurance. The administration went back, added more analysis, and began the program a second time, though the litigation continues.A recent ruling on changes to the 2020 census also failed the test, according to a federal judge in New York. The judge said Wilbur L. Ross Jr., the Commerce secretary, broke “a veritable smorgasbord” of federal rules.The rule-making sloppiness may reflect the president’s enthusiasm for deregulation, and the distrust of agency staff by many of his political appointees. “It’s hard to understand as anything but a combination of haste and ineptitude,” said Nicholas Bagley, a law professor at the University of Michigan, who worked in the Obama administration Justice Department defending its regulations.In many cases, it’s easy enough for regulators to bounce back from a loss on procedural grounds. Trump administration agencies may have better luck with their subsequent efforts, which are now underway in several areas where initial rule making was rejected by courts. Mr. Bagley said he expected the administration would fare better on many rules the second time around.In other cases, flaws with process may be the least of the problem. Ultimately, regulations are required to comply not just with the Administrative Procedure Act but also with the underlying law that authorized them. “Sometimes, better analysis would show how harmful the policy is,” Mr. Revesz said.Regulations have always been challenged under the Administrative Procedure Act, and successful challenges of major ones may be getting more common. As Congress has become more gridlocked, and as presidents have pushed the boundaries of executive authority, the courts have weighed in more often on boundary-stretching rules. The Bush administration lost a string of cases over its environmental regulations. The Obama administration absorbed some setbacks, too, including a pause to its regulation on power plant emissions and an appeals court ruling against its creation of the DACA program to provide legal status to young people whose parents had come to the country illegally.Studies have shown that, while the differences are small, politics does have a bearing on how closely judges scrutinize the quality of regulatory analysis. In general, judges appointed by Democrats tend to be more skeptical of rules written by Republican administrations, and Republican appointees are more dubious about Democratic rule making.That means, as the courts become more conservative, the next ambitious Democratic president may also trip over the Administrative Procedure Act.Margot Sanger-Katz is a domestic correspondent and writes about health care for The Upshot. She was previously a reporter at National Journal and The Concord Monitor and an editor at Legal Affairs and the Yale Alumni Magazine.  @sangerkatz • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a glimmer of hope in the shutdown talks, the revival of the military’s transgender ban, and Serena Williams’s loss at the Australian Open.Lawmakers are to consider two spending measures on Thursday, the first time senators are addressing the budget impasse since the partial government shutdown began last month.One of the bills includes President Trump’s call for $5.7 billion for a border wall, the other is a short-term funding proposal by Democrats that wouldn’t finance a wall. Neither measure is expected to pass, but there’s hope that the votes will lead to negotiations for a bipartisan compromise.Go deeper: Mr. Trump has been focusing almost exclusively on the wall, suspending the rest of his policy agenda, because he’s convinced his presidency is on the line, our chief White House correspondent writes.By a 5-4 vote on Tuesday, the justices granted the Trump administration’s request to bar most transgender people from military service while cases challenging the policy move forward in lower courts.President Trump announced the ban in 2017, saying that American forces couldn’t afford the “tremendous medical costs and disruption” of transgender service members. The policy makes exceptions for those already serving openly and those willing to serve “in their biological sex.”Gun rights: The court also said it would hear its first Second Amendment case in nearly a decade, a test of the justices’ approach to gun rights after the arrival of Brett Kavanaugh, a conservative, in October. The case involves a New York City law that limits residents from transporting guns outside their homes.DACA: The court took no action on the Trump administration’s plans to shut down the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. That means the court will almost certainly not hear the administration’s challenge in its current term, which ends in June.Juan Guaidó, 35, an opposition leader and president of the National Assembly, has called on Venezuelans to take to the streets today to protest the government of President Nicolás Maduro and the economic crisis that has led more than three million people to flee the country.Catch up: The president was sworn in for a second term this month, after a disputed election that many countries didn’t recognize, and Mr. Guaidó says the government is illegitimate. Mr. Maduro dismisses the opposition as “little boys” who are pawns of the Trump administration.Yesterday: Vice President Mike Pence declared Washington’s “unwavering support” for the planned demonstrations.In his latest clash with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Gov. Andrew Cuomo opposed a requested fare increase on Tuesday and questioned whether the agency really needed the revenue to make much-needed improvements. “Tighten your belt. Make the place run better,” said Mr. Cuomo, who has repeatedly complained about the agency’s bureaucracy.A vote on Thursday could determine whether the cost of a MetroCard swipe will go up to $3 in March.In numbers: Experts predict the M.T.A. will have a deficit of nearly $1 billion by 2022. Subway leaders warn they will have to raise fares or cut services unless other revenue sources are found. The former Soviet republic of Georgia has offered tax breaks, land deals and cheap energy to attract tech-savvy entrepreneurs and the high-powered computers that are needed to mine the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, even though its value has tumbled.Our chief European business correspondent traveled to the capital, Tbilisi, to learn more about a “state-supported dash toward data supremacy.”Los Angeles teachers end strike: Tens of thousands of employees in the nation’s second-largest public school system are set to return to work today after they reached a deal to end a weeklong strike. The agreement includes caps on class sizes, and hiring full-time nurses for every school.The 2020 election: Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced today that he was starting a Democratic presidential campaign. A veteran of the war in Afghanistan, Mr. Buttigieg is the first openly gay candidate to join the 2020 presidential race.Chris Brown case: The R&B singer was released without charges after being questioned in Paris over accusations of rape. Snapshot: Above, Roman Catholic priests heard confessions at a park in Panama City on Tuesday as part of World Youth Day. Hundreds of thousands of people are expected at the five-day event, which Pope Francis will attend.In memoriam: Russell Baker, one of the most celebrated American writers and a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner, died on Monday at 93. His column (including one about a dreaded Christmas fruitcake) appeared in The Times and other newspapers for 36 years.Oscar nominations: Netflix received its first best picture nod for “Roma,” a foreign-language film that tied with “The Favourite” to lead the nominations, at 10 each. Here’s a complete list of the nominees, as well as the snubs and surprises.Baseball Hall of Fame: Mariano Rivera, the relief pitcher who helped the New York Yankees win five World Series, became the first player to be elected unanimously to the Hall of Fame.Serena Williams is out: Williams was one point from victory today when she appeared to injure herself, eventually losing to seventh-seeded Karolina Pliskova in the Australian Open quarterfinals. Here are all the scores.Late-night comedy: Conan O’Brien returned with a new version of his show and a more casual outfit: “This is how I dress in real life — I call my look: ‘hip biology teacher.’”What we’re reading: This essay in The Bitter Southerner. “The Tennessee food writer Jennifer Justus wrote this unexpected story about the grandes dames of Nashville music told through their cookbooks,” writes Kim Severson, our national food correspondent. “It starts with a recipe for ‘Husband’s Delight’ from Tammy Wynette, and ends with the revelation that even recipes from Chet Atkins and Merle Haggard came from Southern women.” Cook: Harissa, a North African chile paste, turns canned chickpeas into a fast, spicy soup.Watch: Many Oscar-nominated movies are already available to stream, including “Roma” and “Black Panther.”Listen: Our Popcast features a guide to new artists, from British punk-rap to morbid electronic pop.See: “She Persists: A Century of Women Artists in New York,” an installation of works by 44 artists and collectives in the public spaces of Gracie Mansion.Smarter Living: Salary transparency has many benefits, but if you discover you’re being paid less than a colleague, don’t run to tell your boss that. Instead, a negotiations expert suggests starting with something like: “Based on my market research and discussions with people within my network who are in similar roles, an uplift of X percent would reflect my contributions.”And we looked at the next generation of fitness trackers: stretchy, battery-free patches that analyze your sweat for a real-time gauge of your health.World leaders and chief executives  have converged in Davos, Switzerland, for the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum.The global elite come to discuss the world’s problems — and maybe squeeze in some skiing.Long before the forum existed, Davos was linked to Europe’s bourgeoisie as the setting of “The Magic Mountain,” the 1924 novel by Thomas Mann. We asked Pamela Paul, the editor of the Book Review, what today’s readers should know about the book, which follows a wealthy young German through seven years in a tuberculosis sanitarium just before World War I.“Many people read it as a metaphor for the sickness of Europe on the brink of war,” she answered. “Well-heeled invalids gather indefinitely, for a cure that doesn’t necessarily come — perhaps deliberately. The longer they stay, the greater the owner’s profits.“They spend their days gossiping, pursuing love affairs and having abstract arguments that never reach any decisive resolution.”That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youInyoung Kang helped compile today’s briefing, and Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson provided our break from the news. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the encounter between high school students and a Native American man in Washington.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Genre for Philip K. Dick and N.K. Jemisin (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times first reported from Davos, Switzerland, in 1890 — covering a new railroad that cut travel time from London to only 30 hours.An earlier version of this briefing misstated the percentage increase of single fares that is under consideration by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in New York City. A base fare rise to $3 would represent an increase of 9 percent, not 4 percent. (Under two proposals the authority’s board has been considering, the increase for a majority of transit system users would be 4 percent.)Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAs secretary of homeland security, she signed the memorandum that created the popular program protecting ‘Dreamers.’ Now she’s fighting to save it.By Cristian FariasMr. Farias is a member of the editorial board.For all his efforts to undo the work of the prior administration, President Trump’s most striking failure has been his attempt to reverse the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program — a reprieve from deportation President Barack Obama issued nearly seven years ago to undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. In September 2017, Mr. Trump ordered an end to the program, known as DACA. The administration argued that it was an improper use of executive power that circumvented Congress and protected people who were breaking the law. But beginning in January of last year, a number of judges put a hold on DACA’s demise, finding the administration’s legal reasoning for ending it weak and in violation of the Administrative Procedure Act. Mr. Trump tried to offer a limited, statutory version of DACA as a bargaining chip during negotiations to end the government shutdown. But when the Supreme Court kept those holds in place while the appeals continued, its barter value was eliminatedAs secretary of homeland security under Mr. Obama, Janet Napolitano signed the memorandum that put DACA in place. In a legal twist, she’s now defending her handiwork in court, this time as president of the University of California, which has thousands of DACA students and is suing to overturn the DACA reversal. So she has a unique viewpoint of the controversy.This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.Q. When you signed the memorandum that created the DACA program in 2012, did you ever imagine it would take on a life of its own?A. No. (Laughs). I thought it would help a group of individuals who were undocumented in the country who in any circumstance would be low-enforcement priorities. But nonetheless, so long as they didn’t have any protection they were always having to look over their shoulder and, of course, they couldn’t get work authorization. And it just seemed to me that that was just wrong. And when Congress was unable to pass a Dream Act [which would write DACA-like protections into law and offer a path to citizenship], we began looking at what could the executive branch do. And we settled on the theory that the executive branch always has the authority to establish prosecution priorities. [The Department of] Justice doesn’t prosecute bad-check cases, they prosecute bank fraud cases. And it seems that in immigration enforcement the same theory would apply. That’s what we based the creation of DACA on.Q. This concept of “prosecutorial discretion” is the linchpin of the DACA program. And yet the Trump administration has said very little about prosecutorial discretion in these legal challenges. A. I think it’s because they proceed on the theory that DACA was illegal from its inception. And of course it’s not illegal. The administration, the Obama administration, had the authority to establish priorities for immigration enforcement. And DACA is simply a reflection of that. And I think having announced the rescission of DACA by saying it was illegal to have DACA, they led with their chin.Q. Was your decision to institute DACA controversial with D.H.S. leadership and the rank and file? Your memorandum was addressed to the different components at the Department of Homeland Security — a very law-and-order-type agency.A. No. The main component that has the responsibility for carrying out DACA is U.S.C.I.S. [the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]. Those are the folks that help people adjust their citizenship status, so this was in a way very consistent with their ethos. And with respect to ICE [Immigration and Customs Enforcement], if there was any resistance in the field, it never came to my attention.Q. President Obama called DACA a “temporary stopgap measure,” and instinctively, I imagine, you always understood a future administration could get rid of it. And yet here we are. To what would you attribute DACA’s endurance?A. One, its sheer numbers — close to 800,000-some-odd DACA recipients. And they’re attending colleges and universities. They’re…some of them have started their own small businesses. They’re homeowners. By now they’re parents. They’re well entrenched in the fabric of U.S. life. And when DACA was announced by the president, it got virtually no pushback. It was popular from the get-go. And the polling on it continues to show that it’s very popular. I think that has helped sustain it. If the administration were going to make a decision to rescind it, there was a right way and a wrong way to do that, and they did it the wrong way.Q. Nearly seven years later, the Trump administration believes, as do some states, that DACA is unconstitutional — an executive usurpation of power. A. It wasn’t and it isn’t. It’s a fair exercise of the executive’s authority. And it’s interesting to contrast the administration’s arguments on the travel ban, for example, [which] are based on the broad authority of the executive in enforcing immigration law. And it’s exactly that kind of authority that they’re trying to restrict in the DACA litigation. So consistency isn’t their best thing.Q. Arizona, which you led as governor prior to becoming Homeland Security secretary, recently allowed Dreamers to obtain driver’s licenses after a prolonged legal battle. Why this lingering antipathy toward the program’s beneficiaries from a few isolated quarters?A. Maybe it links to immigration politics generally, not just about DACA — the feeling that immigrants are here, they’re here against the law, they’re taking jobs away from Americans, they’re depressing wages, they’re taking all these public benefits, and they ought to all be deported. That kind of feeling about immigration generally still spills over to antipathy toward Dreamers, which, as you know, were brought here as children. And most of them really know only the United States as home.Q. Many people would be surprised to learn that you’re now fighting the DACA reversal in the courts as president of the University of California. Why did you jump into this dispute?A. I thought DACA was right then, and I thought DACA was right now. And the only thing that would be better would be for Congress to finally take up some of these immigration issues and resolve them permanently in statute.Q. Judges in California, New York and Washington, D.C., who have ruled against the administration have had harsh words for the way then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions and the Department of Homeland Security went about rescinding DACA. Do you take that as vindication?A. Yeah! (Laughs.)Q. What do you make of the Supreme Court’s recent inaction on DACA? It doesn’t look like the justices will be weighing in this term.A. I can only speculate. One speculation is an institutional reluctance to take a case that there’s no urgency about. The DACA program has remained in place since we got the original injunction. And there’s no immediate urgency to taking this case. And to do so would put the court in the middle of whatever is going on between the president and the Congress. So maybe there’s a little recognition that this is not the place where the Supreme Court should be jumping.Q. Is DACA your biggest legacy?A. It’s either that or T.S.A. PreCheck. (Laughs.)The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Refusing to change out of her turtleneck on a sweltering day in Pasadena and being captivated by swaying palm trees.That’s most of what Miriam Tellez Sorrosa remembers about arriving in the United States from Mexico when she was 7.“I had not seen palm trees in my life,” she said. “I thought they were going to fall.”Ms. Tellez Sorrosa is now 22 and a “Dreamer” — she’s among the roughly 700,000 young immigrants brought into the United States as children, who were shielded from deportation under the Obama-era program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.She’s getting ready to graduate from Cal State University Fullerton, where she’s worked extensively with other undocumented students through the school’s Titan Dreamers Resource Center.And on Tuesday, at the invitation of Representative Gil Cisneros, she was in the chambers of the U.S. House of Representatives as President Trump delivered his State of the Union address.Mr. Cisneros, who represents the 39th District, which includes parts of Los Angeles, Orange and San Bernardino Counties, said he wanted the president to see that students like Ms. Tellez Sorrosa are assets to the country.“This is her home; this is where she wants to make a difference and we need to be embracing that,” he said.While President Trump has consistently used dire language about immigrants who come into the country illegally, his position on DACA recipients has shifted.In 2017, he moved to end DACA, then last month, he offered to extend protections for DACA recipients in exchange for border wall funding.In the State of the Union, he returned to describing a crisis on the border.I talked to Ms. Tellez Sorrosa on Wednesday about visiting Washington and listening to the president. Here’s our conversation, edited for length and clarity.Jill Cowan: What did being at the State of the Union represent for you?I think the biggest thing for me was just understanding the history of it, to think the place where I was going to be was the place where generations of individuals were making laws that now affect me.What being undocumented means to me is my resilient identity. So for me, I feel like it’s almost like a responsibility and a necessity to share my experience.What was it like to be in Washington as the guest of a congressman?Yesterday there was a period of time where I was shadowing him in his meetings and that just blew my mind.What I love about it, too, was that everybody’s experience and narrative is unique and there’s not like, “This person’s guest is more important than this person’s guest.” It was just a handful of American people being present. That was one of the most magical things, to share the room. I feel like that’s what America always strives to be: With the people and for the people.Was there another guest that you really felt like you connected with? I was super excited to hear that there were going to be more DACA recipients attending and there was this moment where we were all in the same room. I was just like, “Yes.”What was it like listening to the speech? In a way, I was happy about where my seat was. I couldn’t really see him. It helped me just listen to what he was saying. There were things where I was like, “I believe this, too.”When he talked about immigration and immigrants, I paid a lot more attention. I think because I’ve known his rhetoric and how he talked about immigrants, that wasn’t a surprise. I was indifferent to it.But I’m learning research now as a sociologist, and I was like, there’s so many potential flaws in this. I want to know where your information is coming from.[Read The Times’s fact check of the State of the Union here.]Do you mind if I ask what you wore? I laugh because I was freaking out about what to wear. I was coming into a space where these people are people with power, economic status, everything. How do I fit in? I think I went the safe route, wearing business professional clothing. I did wear a white shirt in support of a lot of congresswomen.On campus, we have a Dreamers’ graduation and in our Dreamers’ graduation we have a sash. So I actually asked for my sash in advance as a statement piece. I was hoping it would spark dialogue.How are you going to use this experience going forward?I’m definitely not as afraid as I was before.I have until 2020 with my permit. And that’s kind of my safety net, so I’m going to try to do as much as possible while I have DACA and I’m going to continue to advocate for something bigger that will just benefit not only the Dreamers, quote-unquote.Last question: Do you think that you might want to run for office someday? One of my Lyft drivers, as I was telling him about why I’m here, he was like, “I like how you talk, you should run for office.” And I was like, “Would I have your vote?” He was like, “Yes!”Definitely, being here and being present and seeing people being passionate about moving forward the agendas that are important to them and making every single topic special and important has motivated me to get more involved.(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• A gas line explosion shot a massive fireball into the street, and knocked out power for thousands in San Francisco on Wednesday. Workers for an unspecified contractor hit the line while they were digging to install fiber optic cables. All of the workers were eventually accounted for. Pacific Gas and Electric Co. was investigating. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Border residents in towns like El Centro shrugged off President Trump’s warnings during his State of the Union address. But they took issue with his characterizations of Mexicans and Mexican-Americans: “They say we’re all criminals when we’re not. Just because we’re brown doesn’t mean we’re dirty.” [The New York Times]• Global warming isn’t some abstract thing in the future. Last year, the Earth’s average surface temperature was the fourth highest on record, and part of an unmistakable warming trend. [The New York Times]• “Health care was the single most important issue to voters in the 2018 election,” said Representative Anna G. Eshoo, a Democrat from California. Now she and her colleagues are starting a campaign to protect coverage for pre-existing conditions. [The New York Times]• That Budweiser Super Bowl commercial where Bob Dylan’s “Blowin’ in the Wind” plays over sweeping shots of the American heartland? Yeah, that was actually Tejon Ranch, in yet another instance of California standing in for Not California onscreen. [The Bakersfield Californian]• Thank you for being a friend — and learning about ageism and sexism: Cal State Long Beach has a “Golden Girls” class that explores how older women are perceived, and how the show took on taboo issues like the AIDS crisis and discrimination. [Long Beach Post]California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byUnder Trump, America is no longer in the top tier of democratic countries.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistSince the early 1970s, the pro-democracy nonprofit Freedom House, founded in 1941 to mobilize American public opinion against Nazism, has published an annual survey evaluating political freedoms and civil liberties in countries around the world. Using 25 indicators, including electoral processes, individual rights and the rule of law, nations are scored on a 100-point scale. For decades, both Republican and Democratic leaders saw the values championed by Freedom House, which is partly funded by the United States government, as quintessentially American, and the United States has generally scored quite high on Freedom House’s index. Recently, however, that has begun to change.The latest edition of “Freedom in the World,” Freedom House’s flagship report, has just been released. For the second year in a row, the United States had a score of 86, down from 94 in 2009. According to Michael Abramowitz, Freedom House’s president, it’s the lowest score for the United States since the survey began. Though still ranked as free, America now falls below not just Canada and the Nordic countries, but also Greece, Latvia and Mauritius. “The current overall U.S. score puts American democracy closer to struggling counterparts like Croatia than to traditional peers such as Germany or the United Kingdom,” the report said.Two years into Donald Trump’s presidency, American democracy has in many ways proved fairly resilient. Several of the criminals who helped Trump get elected either have gone to prison or soon will. Democrats won control of the House in 2018 and have already started checking the president’s power. The courts have blocked some of Trump’s more egregious nativist policies, including his effort to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. Trump’s attempts at racist demagogy often end up mobilizing public opinion against him. There’s been a revival of civic activism; according to Freedom House, the United States’ score for freedom of assembly has actually improved in the last year.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]But the Freedom House report gives us at least two reasons for continuing alarm. The first is that it usually takes more than two years for a democracy to collapse. “Elsewhere in the world, in places like Hungary, Venezuela or Turkey, Freedom House has watched as democratic institutions gradually succumbed to sustained pressure from an antidemocratic leadership, often after a halting start,” the report said. Abramowitz told me that an increase in corruption and a decrease in transparency — both hallmarks of this administration — are “often early warning indicators of problems in a democracy,” undermining public faith in the legitimacy of the system.Second, if Americans increasingly ignore Trump’s words, foreign leaders don’t. Authoritarianism is on the rise all over the globe — according to the Freedom House report, this is the 13th consecutive year that global freedom has declined. Trump’s presidency is a consequence of this trend, but it’s also become an accelerant of it.There are plenty of reasons to be cynical about the idea — once a consensus view in American foreign policy — that it’s the sacred duty of the United States to promote democracy around the world. One of the pretexts for America’s war in Iraq, after all, was that it would spread democracy in the Middle East. Under Trump, however, we’re learning that an American approach to the world that is completely amoral and transactional creates its own dangers.All over the globe, autocrats have learned that they will pay no serious diplomatic price for repressing or even killing reporters. In 2017, Cambodian strongman Hun Sen said of journalists, “Donald Trump understands that they are an anarchic group.” Later that year his government forced one of the country’s most prominent independent newspapers to close. The Trump administration remained loyal to Saudi Arabia’s crown prince despite the C.I.A.’s assessment that he ordered the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, a Washington Post columnist. As Abramowitz pointed out, laws have been proposed or passed in at least 17 countries to censor the internet in the name of fighting “fake news.” “They didn’t come up with this on their own!” he said.If a Democrat wins the presidency in 2020, there’s going to be a lot of pressure to move beyond this foul moment and forgive those who were complicit in it. We’re not good at holding elites to account in America; the architects of both the Iraq war and the 2008 financial crisis have gone largely unpunished.Still, I hope we can summon the political will for a reckoning with how thoroughly this administration has betrayed America’s highest ideals. We’ll need a full accounting of all the institutional corrosion the Trump presidency has caused, and all the money Trump and his associates have made off it.The world offers more lessons about how democracies grow weak and brittle than how they can be revived. America may never again be taken seriously as the global champion of liberal democracy. But perhaps it could at least figure out a systematic way to repudiate illiberalism. We’re not the only country that’s going to need it.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCompiled by Sara Aridi and Lauren MessmanThe 61st annual Grammy Awards were on Sunday. Here are highlights from the show:• At a ceremony dominated by female performers and presenters, Kacey Musgraves won album of the year and Cardi B became the first woman to win best rap album as a solo artist.• Our critics and writers weigh in on the best and worst moments.• At the beginning of the show, Alicia Keys, the host, introduced “my sisters”: Lady Gaga, Jada Pinkett Smith, Michelle Obama and Jennifer Lopez. Messages of inspiration and hope continued throughout.• Check out the red carpet looks.See the complete list of winners below:Record of the Year“This Is America” — Childish GambinoAlbum of the Year“Golden Hour” — Kacey MusgravesSong of the Year“This Is America” — Donald Glover and Ludwig Goransson, songwriters (Childish Gambino)Best New ArtistDua LipaBest Pop Solo Performance“Joanne (Where Do You Think You’re Goin’?)” — Lady GagaBest Pop Duo/Group Performance“Shallow” — Lady Gaga and Bradley CooperBest Pop Vocal Album“Sweetener” — Ariana Grande[Never miss a pop music story: Sign up for our weekly newsletter, Louder.]Best Rock Performance“When Bad Does Good” — Chris CornellBest Rock Song“Masseduction” — Jack Antonoff and Annie Clark, songwriters (St. Vincent)Best Rock Album“From the Fires” — Greta Van FleetBest Alternative Music Album“Colors” — BeckBest R&B Performance“Best Part” — H.E.R. featuring Daniel Caesar[Want to be heard during the Grammys? Might be best to stay home.]Best Urban Contemporary Album“Everything Is Love” — The CartersBest R&B Album“H.E.R.” — H.E.R.Best Rap Performance“King’s Dead” — Kendrick Lamar, Jay Rock, Future and James Blake and“Bubblin” — Anderson .Paak55 PhotosView Slide Show ›Best Rap Song“God’s Plan” — Aubrey Graham, Daveon Jackson, Brock Korsan, Ron LaTour, Matthew Samuels and Noah Shebib, songwriters (Drake)Best Rap Album“Invasion of Privacy” — Cardi BBest Country Solo Performance“Butterflies” — Kacey MusgravesBest Country Album“Golden Hour” — Kacey MusgravesBest Jazz Instrumental Album“Emanon” — The Wayne Shorter QuartetBest Latin Pop Album“Sincera” — Claudia BrantBest Latin Rock, Urban or Alternative Album“Aztlán” — ZoéBest Americana Album“By the Way, I Forgive You” — Brandi CarlileBest Song Written for Visual Media“Shallow” — Lady Gaga, Mark Ronson, Anthony Rossomando and Andrew Wyatt, songwriters (Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper)Producer of the Year, Non-ClassicalPharrell WilliamsBest Music Video“This Is America” — Childish GambinoBest Comedy Album“Equanimity & the Bird Revelation” — Dave ChappelleBest Musical Theater Album“The Band’s Visit” — Etai Benson, Adam Kantor, Katrina Lenk and Ari’el Stachel, principal soloists; Dean Sharenow and David Yazbek, producers; David Yazbek, composer and lyricistBest Instrumental Composition“Blut Und Boden (Blood and Soil)” — Terence BlanchardBest Arrangement, Instrumental or A Cappella“Stars and Stripes Forever” — John DaversaBest Arrangement, Instruments and Vocals“Spiderman Theme” — Mark Kibble, Randy Waldman and Justin Wilson, arrangersBest Recording Package“Masseduction” — Willo Perron, art directorBest Boxed or Special Limited Edition Package“Squeeze Box: The Complete Works of ‘Weird Al’ Yankovic” — Meghan Foley, Annie Stoll and Al Yankovic, art directorsBest Album Notes“Voices of Mississippi: Artists and Musicians Documented by William Ferris” — David Evans, album notes writerBest Historical Album“Voices of Mississippi: Artists and Musicians Documented by William Ferris” — William Ferris, April Ledbetter and Steven Lance Ledbetter, compilation producers; Michael Graves, mastering engineerBest Engineered Album, Non-Classical“Colors” — Julian Burg, Serban Ghenea, David “Elevator” Greenbaum, John Hanes, Beck Hansen, Greg Kurstin, Florian Lagatta, Cole M.G.N., Alex Pasco, Jesse Shatkin, Darrell Thorp and Cassidy Turbin, engineers; Chris Bellman, Tom Coyne, Emily Lazar and Randy Merrill, mastering engineers[Can the Grammys please anyone?]Best Remixed Recording“Walking Away (Mura Masa remix)” — Alex Crossan, remixerBest Immersive Audio Album“Eye in the Sky - 35th Anniversary Edition” — Alan Parsons, surround mix engineer; Dave Donnelly, P.J. Olsson and Alan Parsons, surround mastering engineers; Alan Parsons, surround producerBest Contemporary Instrumental Album“Steve Gadd Band” — Steve GaddBand Best Gospel Performance/Song“Never Alone” — Tori Kelly featuring Kirk Franklin; Kirk Franklin and Victoria Kelly, songwriters18 PhotosView Slide Show ›Best Contemporary Christian Music Performance/Song“You Say” — Lauren Daigle; Lauren Daigle, Jason Ingram and Paul Mabury, songwritersBest Gospel Album“Hiding Place” — Tori KellyBest Contemporary Christian Music Album“Look Up Child” — Lauren DaigleBest Roots Gospel Album“Unexpected” — Jason CrabbBest World Music Album“Freedom” — Soweto Gospel ChoirBest Compilation Soundtrack for Visual Media“The Greatest Showman” — Hugh Jackman (and Various Artists); Alex Lacamoire, Benj Pasek, Justin Paul and Greg Wells, compilation producersBest Score Soundtrack for Visual Media“Black Panther” — Ludwig Göransson, composerBest New Age Album“Opium Moon” — Opium MoonBest American Roots Performance“The Joke” — Brandi CarlileBest American Roots Song“The Joke” — Brandi Carlile, Dave Cobb, Phil Hanseroth and Tim Hanseroth, songwritersBest Bluegrass Album“The Travelin’ Mccourys” — The Travelin’ MccourysBest Traditional Blues Album“The Blues Is Alive and Well” — Buddy GuyBest Contemporary Blues Album“Please Don’t Be Dead” — Fantastic NegritoBest Folk Album“All Ashore” — Punch Brothers Best Children’s Album“All the Sounds” — Lucy Kalantari & the Jazz CatsBest Spoken Word Album (Includes Poetry, Audio Books and Storytelling)“Faith - A Journey for All” — Jimmy CarterBest Regional Mexican Music Album (Including Tejano)“¡México Por Siempre!” — Luis MiguelBest Tropical Latin Album“Anniversary” — Spanish Harlem OrchestraBest Regional Roots Music Album“No ‘Ane’i” — Kalani Pe’a Best Music Film“Quincy” — Quincy Jones; Alan Hicks and Rashida Jones, video directors; Paula Dupré Pesmen, video producerBest Country Duo/Group Performance“Tequila” — Dan + ShayBest Country Song“Space Cowboy” — Luke Laird, Shane Mcanally and Kacey Musgraves, songwritersBest Traditional Pop Vocal Album“My Way” — Willie NelsonBest Engineered Album, Classical“Shostakovich: Symphonies Nos. 4 & 11” — Shawn Murphy and Nick Squire, engineers; Tim Martyn, mastering engineerProducer of the Year, ClassicalBlanton AlspaughBest Orchestral Performance“Shostakovich: Symphonies Nos. 4 & 11” — Andris Nelsons, conductorBest Opera Recording“Bates: The (R)evolution of Steve Jobs” — Michael Christie, conductor; Sasha Cooke, Jessica E. Jones, Edward Parks, Garrett Sorenson and Wei Wu; Elizabeth Ostrow, producerBest Choral Performance“Mcloskey: Zealot Canticles” — Donald Nally, conductorBest Chamber Music/Small Ensemble Performance“Anderson, Laurie: Landfall” — Laurie Anderson and Kronos QuartetBest Classical Instrumental Solo“Kernis: Violin Concerto” — James Ehnes; Ludovic Morlot, conductorBest Classical Solo Vocal Album“Songs of Orpheus - Monteverdi, Caccini, D’india & Landi” — Karim Sulayman; Jeannette Sorrell, conductor; Apollo’s Fire, ensemblesBest Classical Compendium“Fuchs: Piano Concerto ‘spiritualist’; Poems of Life; Glacier; Rush” — Joann Falletta, conductor; Tim Handley, producerBest Contemporary Classical Composition“Kernis: Violin Concerto” — Aaron Jay Kernis, composerBest Dance Recording“Electricity” — Silk City and Dua Lipa featuring Diplo and Mark RonsonBest Dance/Electronic Album“Woman Worldwide” — JusticeBest Reggae Album“44/876” — Sting and ShaggyBest Improvised Jazz Solo“Don’t Fence Me In” — John Daversa, soloist. Track from: “American Dreamers: Voices of Hope, Music of Freedom”Best Jazz Vocal Album“The Window” — Cécile Mclorin SalvantBest Large Jazz Ensemble Album“American Dreamers: Voices of Hope, Music of Freedom” — John Daversa Big Band featuring DACA ArtistsBest Latin Jazz Album“Back to the Sunset” — Dafnis Prieto Big BandBest Traditional R&B Performance“Bet Ain’t Worth the Hand” — Leon Bridges and“How Deep Is Your Love” — PJ Morton featuring YebbaBest R&B Song“Boo’d Up” — Larrance Dopson, Joelle James, Ella Mai and Dijon Mcfarlane, songwritersBest Metal Performance“Electric Messiah” — High on FireBest Rap/Sung Performance“This Is America” — Childish Gambino[Read our coverage and analysis of the ceremony.]AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCompiled by Sara Aridi and Lauren MessmanThe 61st annual Grammy Awards were on Sunday. Here are highlights from the show:• At a ceremony dominated by female performers and presenters, Kacey Musgraves won album of the year and Cardi B became the first woman to win best rap album as a solo artist.• Our critics and writers weigh in on the best and worst moments.• At the beginning of the show, Alicia Keys, the host, introduced “my sisters”: Lady Gaga, Jada Pinkett Smith, Michelle Obama and Jennifer Lopez. Messages of inspiration and hope continued throughout.• Check out the red carpet looks.See the complete list of winners below:Record of the Year“This Is America” — Childish GambinoAlbum of the Year“Golden Hour” — Kacey MusgravesSong of the Year“This Is America” — Donald Glover and Ludwig Goransson, songwriters (Childish Gambino)Best New ArtistDua LipaBest Pop Solo Performance“Joanne (Where Do You Think You’re Goin’?)” — Lady GagaBest Pop Duo/Group Performance“Shallow” — Lady Gaga and Bradley CooperBest Pop Vocal Album“Sweetener” — Ariana Grande[Never miss a pop music story: Sign up for our weekly newsletter, Louder.]Best Rock Performance“When Bad Does Good” — Chris CornellBest Rock Song“Masseduction” — Jack Antonoff and Annie Clark, songwriters (St. Vincent)Best Rock Album“From the Fires” — Greta Van FleetBest Alternative Music Album“Colors” — BeckBest R&B Performance“Best Part” — H.E.R. featuring Daniel Caesar[Want to be heard during the Grammys? Might be best to stay home.]Best Urban Contemporary Album“Everything Is Love” — The CartersBest R&B Album“H.E.R.” — H.E.R.Best Rap Performance“King’s Dead” — Kendrick Lamar, Jay Rock, Future and James Blake and“Bubblin” — Anderson .Paak55 PhotosView Slide Show ›Best Rap Song“God’s Plan” — Aubrey Graham, Daveon Jackson, Brock Korsan, Ron LaTour, Matthew Samuels and Noah Shebib, songwriters (Drake)Best Rap Album“Invasion of Privacy” — Cardi BBest Country Solo Performance“Butterflies” — Kacey MusgravesBest Country Album“Golden Hour” — Kacey MusgravesBest Jazz Instrumental Album“Emanon” — The Wayne Shorter QuartetBest Latin Pop Album“Sincera” — Claudia BrantBest Latin Rock, Urban or Alternative Album“Aztlán” — ZoéBest Americana Album“By the Way, I Forgive You” — Brandi CarlileBest Song Written for Visual Media“Shallow” — Lady Gaga, Mark Ronson, Anthony Rossomando and Andrew Wyatt, songwriters (Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper)Producer of the Year, Non-ClassicalPharrell WilliamsBest Music Video“This Is America” — Childish GambinoBest Comedy Album“Equanimity & the Bird Revelation” — Dave ChappelleBest Musical Theater Album“The Band’s Visit” — Etai Benson, Adam Kantor, Katrina Lenk and Ari’el Stachel, principal soloists; Dean Sharenow and David Yazbek, producers; David Yazbek, composer and lyricistBest Instrumental Composition“Blut Und Boden (Blood and Soil)” — Terence BlanchardBest Arrangement, Instrumental or A Cappella“Stars and Stripes Forever” — John DaversaBest Arrangement, Instruments and Vocals“Spiderman Theme” — Mark Kibble, Randy Waldman and Justin Wilson, arrangersBest Recording Package“Masseduction” — Willo Perron, art directorBest Boxed or Special Limited Edition Package“Squeeze Box: The Complete Works of ‘Weird Al’ Yankovic” — Meghan Foley, Annie Stoll and Al Yankovic, art directorsBest Album Notes“Voices of Mississippi: Artists and Musicians Documented by William Ferris” — David Evans, album notes writerBest Historical Album“Voices of Mississippi: Artists and Musicians Documented by William Ferris” — William Ferris, April Ledbetter and Steven Lance Ledbetter, compilation producers; Michael Graves, mastering engineerBest Engineered Album, Non-Classical“Colors” — Julian Burg, Serban Ghenea, David “Elevator” Greenbaum, John Hanes, Beck Hansen, Greg Kurstin, Florian Lagatta, Cole M.G.N., Alex Pasco, Jesse Shatkin, Darrell Thorp and Cassidy Turbin, engineers; Chris Bellman, Tom Coyne, Emily Lazar and Randy Merrill, mastering engineers[Can the Grammys please anyone?]Best Remixed Recording“Walking Away (Mura Masa remix)” — Alex Crossan, remixerBest Immersive Audio Album“Eye in the Sky - 35th Anniversary Edition” — Alan Parsons, surround mix engineer; Dave Donnelly, P.J. Olsson and Alan Parsons, surround mastering engineers; Alan Parsons, surround producerBest Contemporary Instrumental Album“Steve Gadd Band” — Steve GaddBand Best Gospel Performance/Song“Never Alone” — Tori Kelly featuring Kirk Franklin; Kirk Franklin and Victoria Kelly, songwriters18 PhotosView Slide Show ›Best Contemporary Christian Music Performance/Song“You Say” — Lauren Daigle; Lauren Daigle, Jason Ingram and Paul Mabury, songwritersBest Gospel Album“Hiding Place” — Tori KellyBest Contemporary Christian Music Album“Look Up Child” — Lauren DaigleBest Roots Gospel Album“Unexpected” — Jason CrabbBest World Music Album“Freedom” — Soweto Gospel ChoirBest Compilation Soundtrack for Visual Media“The Greatest Showman” — Hugh Jackman (and Various Artists); Alex Lacamoire, Benj Pasek, Justin Paul and Greg Wells, compilation producersBest Score Soundtrack for Visual Media“Black Panther” — Ludwig Göransson, composerBest New Age Album“Opium Moon” — Opium MoonBest American Roots Performance“The Joke” — Brandi CarlileBest American Roots Song“The Joke” — Brandi Carlile, Dave Cobb, Phil Hanseroth and Tim Hanseroth, songwritersBest Bluegrass Album“The Travelin’ Mccourys” — The Travelin’ MccourysBest Traditional Blues Album“The Blues Is Alive and Well” — Buddy GuyBest Contemporary Blues Album“Please Don’t Be Dead” — Fantastic NegritoBest Folk Album“All Ashore” — Punch Brothers Best Children’s Album“All the Sounds” — Lucy Kalantari & the Jazz CatsBest Spoken Word Album (Includes Poetry, Audio Books and Storytelling)“Faith - A Journey for All” — Jimmy CarterBest Regional Mexican Music Album (Including Tejano)“¡México Por Siempre!” — Luis MiguelBest Tropical Latin Album“Anniversary” — Spanish Harlem OrchestraBest Regional Roots Music Album“No ‘Ane’i” — Kalani Pe’a Best Music Film“Quincy” — Quincy Jones; Alan Hicks and Rashida Jones, video directors; Paula Dupré Pesmen, video producerBest Country Duo/Group Performance“Tequila” — Dan + ShayBest Country Song“Space Cowboy” — Luke Laird, Shane Mcanally and Kacey Musgraves, songwritersBest Traditional Pop Vocal Album“My Way” — Willie NelsonBest Engineered Album, Classical“Shostakovich: Symphonies Nos. 4 & 11” — Shawn Murphy and Nick Squire, engineers; Tim Martyn, mastering engineerProducer of the Year, ClassicalBlanton AlspaughBest Orchestral Performance“Shostakovich: Symphonies Nos. 4 & 11” — Andris Nelsons, conductorBest Opera Recording“Bates: The (R)evolution of Steve Jobs” — Michael Christie, conductor; Sasha Cooke, Jessica E. Jones, Edward Parks, Garrett Sorenson and Wei Wu; Elizabeth Ostrow, producerBest Choral Performance“Mcloskey: Zealot Canticles” — Donald Nally, conductorBest Chamber Music/Small Ensemble Performance“Anderson, Laurie: Landfall” — Laurie Anderson and Kronos QuartetBest Classical Instrumental Solo“Kernis: Violin Concerto” — James Ehnes; Ludovic Morlot, conductorBest Classical Solo Vocal Album“Songs of Orpheus - Monteverdi, Caccini, D’india & Landi” — Karim Sulayman; Jeannette Sorrell, conductor; Apollo’s Fire, ensemblesBest Classical Compendium“Fuchs: Piano Concerto ‘spiritualist’; Poems of Life; Glacier; Rush” — Joann Falletta, conductor; Tim Handley, producerBest Contemporary Classical Composition“Kernis: Violin Concerto” — Aaron Jay Kernis, composerBest Dance Recording“Electricity” — Silk City and Dua Lipa featuring Diplo and Mark RonsonBest Dance/Electronic Album“Woman Worldwide” — JusticeBest Reggae Album“44/876” — Sting and ShaggyBest Improvised Jazz Solo“Don’t Fence Me In” — John Daversa, soloist. Track from: “American Dreamers: Voices of Hope, Music of Freedom”Best Jazz Vocal Album“The Window” — Cécile Mclorin SalvantBest Large Jazz Ensemble Album“American Dreamers: Voices of Hope, Music of Freedom” — John Daversa Big Band featuring DACA ArtistsBest Latin Jazz Album“Back to the Sunset” — Dafnis Prieto Big BandBest Traditional R&B Performance“Bet Ain’t Worth the Hand” — Leon Bridges and“How Deep Is Your Love” — PJ Morton featuring YebbaBest R&B Song“Boo’d Up” — Larrance Dopson, Joelle James, Ella Mai and Dijon Mcfarlane, songwritersBest Metal Performance“Electric Messiah” — High on FireBest Rap/Sung Performance“This Is America” — Childish Gambino[Read our coverage and analysis of the ceremony.]AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Joumana KhatibSix new paperbacks to check out this week.GOD SAVE TEXAS: A Journey Into the Soul of the Lone Star State, by Lawrence Wright. (Vintage, $16.95.) Wright, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and longtime resident of the state, explores Texas’ foibles, ironies and contradictions with affection. Given the state’s booming population and economic growth, Wright’s book seems to say, America’s future runs through Texas — whether the rest of the country likes it or not.HOW IT HAPPENED, by Michael Koryta. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $16.99.) In this murder mystery, Rob Barrett, an interrogation specialist with the F.B.I., is sent to investigate a double homicide that’s rattled the town of Port Hope, Me. He believes the confession by a young addict, who directs him to where she says the bodies can be found. But when the details don’t seem to pan out, he’s kicked off the case.UNEASY PEACE: The Great Crime Decline, the Renewal of City Life, and the Next War on Violence, by Patrick Sharkey. (Norton, $16.95.) What’s the downside to falling crime rates nationwide? In Sharkey’s analysis, what was done to make those rates plunge included increased incarceration rates and violent policing tactics. This book admirably connects the story of how the country became safer with why many communities are wary of the police.A LONG WAY FROM HOME, by Peter Carey. (Vintage, $16.95.) A married couple and their bachelor neighbor set out on a 10,000-mile endurance contest around Australia in the hopes of eventually opening their own auto dealership. Our reviewer, Craig Taylor, praised this shape-shifting, propulsive novel, writing: “With all its inventive momentum, all its pleasurable beats, the fast pace of the race, the scenery unfurling, the novel ends up far from where it started, in a place of historical reckoning and colonial guilt.”THE MAKING OF A DREAM: How a Group of Young Undocumented Immigrants Helped Change What It Means to Be American, by Laura Wides-Muñoz. (Harper, $17.99.) Wides-Muñoz chronicles the battle for immigration reform through the stories of young activists. A centerpiece of the story is the passage in 2012 of the DACA act, and how it grew out of close to two decades of grass-roots efforts and political activity.CALL ME ZEBRA, by Azareen Van der Vliet Oloomi. (Mariner, $14.99.) In this crackling novel, a bookish Iranian in exile retraces the journey she took with her father, and finds love along the way. As our reviewer, Liesl Schillinger, wrote, the author “relays Zebra’s brainy, benighted struggles as a tragicomic picaresque whose fervid logic and cerebral whimsy recall the work of Bolaño and Borges.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House voted on Tuesday to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the Mexican border, with just 13 Republicans joining Democrats to try to block his effort to divert funding to a border wall without congressional approval.House Republican leaders kept defections low after feverishly working to assuage concerns among rank-and-file members about protecting congressional powers and about the precedent that Mr. Trump could be setting for Democratic presidents to use for their own purposes.“Is your oath of office to Donald Trump or is it to the Constitution of the United States?” Speaker Nancy Pelosi asked her Republican colleagues in a speech on the floor ahead of the vote. “You cannot let him undermine your pledge to the Constitution.”The resolution of disapproval, which passed 245 to 182, must now be taken up by the Senate, where three Republicans have already declared their support, only one short of the number needed for Congress to ratify a stinging rebuke of Mr. Trump’s efforts.It remains highly unlikely that opponents will muster the votes to overturn a promised veto of the resolution. But final passage of a measure to assert Congress’s constitutional authority over spending is sure to bolster numerous lawsuits that maintain that Mr. Trump’s declaration is an unconstitutional end run around Congress’s lawful power of the purse.Many of the 13 Republicans who defected in the House were adamant in their arguments. Representative Jim Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, a veteran lawmaker who once helped manage Republican efforts to remove Bill Clinton from the White House, made it clear he supported the border wall.But, he said, “insufficient action — however frustrating it may be — is still the prerogative of the legislative branch. It is imperative that no administration, Republican or Democratic, circumvent the will of Congress.”In the Senate, where lawmakers are required to vote on the resolution in the coming weeks, those concerns persisted. Even Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader and an open supporter of the declaration, declined to offer his opinion on the legal merits.“We’re in the process of weighing that,” Mr. McConnell said when asked at a news conference on Tuesday. “I haven’t reached a total conclusion.”“You can’t blame the president for trying to use whatever tool he thinks he has to address it,” he added.More than a dozen Republicans voted with Democrats to block President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the United States border with Mexico.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]But ahead of the Senate vote, lawmakers have not said what their next steps would be if the resolution to stop the emergency declaration fails.Three Republican senators — Susan Collins of Maine, Thom Tillis of North Carolina and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — have said that they will support the resolution, and several others have expressed extreme unease. Vice President Mike Pence and a Justice Department lawyer joined Republican senators on Tuesday for a lunch on Capitol Hill to outline what they maintained was the president’s statutory authority for the declaration and need for additional money.Mr. Pence faced some frustration from senators about Mr. Trump’s decision to make the declaration and the legal grounds for doing so, particularly from Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, according to three people familiar with the exchange who asked for anonymity to describe a private meeting.When Mr. Paul argued that Mr. Pence, a former representative, would have opposed Mr. Trump’s use of an emergency declaration and compared it to President Barack Obama’s use of an executive order to establish protections for young undocumented immigrants under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, Mr. Pence objected, according to one person. He argued that there was a difference between the two uses of executive power, according to two people.A spokesman for Mr. Paul said that the senator had raised concerns, along with other senators, about the declaration in an exchange, but did not raise the comparison to DACA.Mr. McConnell acknowledged that there had been “a fulsome discussion” during the meeting, and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a close ally of the president, said he hoped that as a result of the discussion, “we will prevail.”But some senators emerged from the lunch still reluctant to say how they would vote.“Any action by the administration must comply with federal law, so I am reviewing and assessing the specific legal authorities and justifications put forth by the administration,” said Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas. “I am very worried about the slippery slope that could occur.”Some Republican lawmakers and aides said they were unconcerned because they were confident that they could prevent the two-thirds majority needed in both chambers to override a presidential veto, possibly the first delivered by Mr. Trump.“There will be nowhere near the votes to override a veto,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said Tuesday morning at a news conference. “Ultimately, we’re going to stand with the president in making sure we can secure this border.”The resolution of disapproval, under the National Emergencies Act of 1976, serves as the easiest mechanism for Congress to end Mr. Trump’s declaration. House Democrats are still weighing the possibility of joining one of the lawsuits that have been filed to challenge the merits of the declaration.Democrats, who overwhelmingly endorsed the resolution of disapproval, framed the vote as an ultimatum on whether lawmakers would buck party loyalty in order to protect Congress’s constitutionally granted powers. Ms. Pelosi, in a floor speech on Tuesday, listed a number of instances in which House Republicans had objected to Mr. Obama’s use of executive power, vowing that “we are not going to give any president, Democratic or Republican, a blank check to shred the Constitution of the United States.”Representative Joaquin Castro called the vote on the one-page resolution “the most important vote, probably in a generation, on the separation of powers.”Mr. Castro, Democrat of Texas and the author of the resolution, warned Republicans that if the president’s declaration went unchallenged, the issue would resurface.“If Congress lets this stand, if the courts let it stand, how am I to tell a future president that gun deaths that number in the tens of thousands every year in this country, or opioid deaths that number in the thousands in this country, are not an emergency?” Mr. Castro said in a brief interview. “Or climate change is not a national emergency?”“If this becomes a short circuit to get other things done,” he added, “then how is a president not expected to use that tool in the future?”The debate over the merits of Mr. Trump’s national emergency declaration has led some lawmakers to suggest that Congress should re-evaluate how much power it has shifted to the executive branch and the scope of the National Emergencies Act.“The larger issue is Congress has delegated its authority to the White House in hundreds of instances,” said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas. “I think we need to have a bigger conversation about the separation of powers and whether we want to continue to delegate all this authority to the next president.”Overruling concerns from other Republicans, Mr. Trump this month outlined his intent to use $3.6 billion from military construction projects to build his promised wall along the southwestern border. In the lunch with Mr. Pence and the Justice Department lawyer, Republican senators secured a promise that they would be notified about details of which military construction projects would be affected before they voted on the resolution, according to two people familiar with the discussion.Mr. Pence also assured senators that any money diverted from projects would most likely be replaced in the next year’s funding allocation, according to one person familiar with the discussion. While Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, later told reporters that he was confident that effort would be successful, Democratic appropriators would most likely object.House Democrats also pressed the Defense Department on Tuesday to release those details to Congress.“We fear that reprogramming funding intended for military construction projects and counterdrug activities will come at the expense of troop readiness and departmentwide efforts to address the military’s aging infrastructure,” wrote Representatives John Garamendi, Democrat of California, and Doug Lamborn, Republican of Colorado, both members of the House Armed Services Committee.Members of the House Appropriations Committee will hold a hearing on Wednesday to examine the effect of the declaration on military construction and readiness, and members of the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on Thursday in part to examine Mr. Trump’s use of powers under the National Emergencies Act.“The Congress of the United States needs to have a spine, and not lay at the feet of the president,” said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader. “That’s not what the people elected us to do.”Catie Edmondson and Annie Karni contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Joshua BaroneBERKELEY, Calif. — The history of oratorios is populated with great heroes of religion and myth. Bach, Handel and John Adams have written about Jesus. Stravinsky took inspiration from Sophocles; Honegger, from Joan of Arc.Rarely will you find an oratorio about fast-shifting current events.But in “Dreamers,” an ambitious yet bloated new work that had its premiere here at Zellerbach Hall at the University of California, Berkeley, on Sunday, the composer Jimmy López and the librettist Nilo Cruz tell the stories of undocumented immigrants by elevating their experiences to the mythic realm of oratorios past.That was their solution to the problem of writing about the hundreds of thousands of young immigrants, known as “Dreamers,” protected by the Obama-era program Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. This is an ever-changing subject, caught in legislative and judicial limbo: a policy mandated in one president’s term and threatened in the next.To avoid getting caught in breaking news, Mr. López and Mr. Cruz’s 45-minute work — presented by Cal Performances and featuring the soprano Ana María Martínez and the UC Berkeley Chamber Chorus and Volti with the excellent Philharmonia Orchestra of London under Esa-Pekka Salonen — broadens the scope. The creators attempt to look beyond headlines to timeless themes of migration and optimism, beginning in the distant past and ending far beyond our moment of crisis and uncertainty.And what better place than Berkeley? The Bay Area enclave bills itself as the first so-called sanctuary city in the United States; the university touts the support it provides through its Undocumented Students Program.Including Mr. Salonen was serendipitous, since it was announced last fall that he would be the next music director of the San Francisco Symphony. Mr. López is a local composer with a doctorate from Berkeley, and immigrated to the United States from Peru. Mr. Cruz, a Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright and Mr. López’s collaborator on the 2015 opera “Bel Canto,” arrived in this country as a refugee from Cuba.You can’t help but be impressed by the scale and aspiration of “Dreamers.” Which is why I found myself wincing every time Mr. López’s music undercut its own potential.He is clearly a master of writing for orchestra, of exploiting its individual sections and instruments — even the sum of its parts — for maximal effect. But his artistry doesn’t quite match his skill. The music thrills more than it intrigues; it prefers to make blunt declarations, not thoroughly persuasive arguments.Mr. Cruz’s words, however, are poetic and poignant, reminiscent of Alice Goodman’s librettos for the John Adams operas “Nixon in China” and “The Death of Klinghoffer,” which occupy a dreamy realm between historical fact and ethereal enigma. Although Mr. Cruz took his inspiration from conversations with undocumented students at Berkeley, he describes immigration as if were a story as old as time itself: “It came with the yearn / of a leaf, three clouds, / and a woman who dreamt / she was walking / towards the edge / of the world. / And the right / to migrate / was granted.”If only the score matched this poetry. The text often gets the treatment of an action-movie soundtrack — frenetic and epic, rarely softer than fortissimo, occasionally taking a turn for the obvious and gimmicky. At one point, Ms. Martínez is made to sing the line “Who has stopped them,” then shout angrily at the audience: “FROM BEING CHILDREN?”But Ms. Martínez, who had a star turn in “Madama Butterfly” at the Metropolitan Opera in 2016, often rose above the quality of the music, with a sound that penetrated the orchestra and chorus without losing an ounce of its heart. Mr. Salonen and the Philharmonia musicians, too, lifted the score, bringing to this oratorio the same energy and enthusiasm they had in a virtually flawless performance of Schoenberg and Bruckner the evening before, and in Stravinsky’s “Firebird” on the second half of Sunday’s concert.And they did sometimes have rich material to work with. The opening section comes to life slowly: at first with Ms. Martínez alone, then accompanying her with a cosmic glow as she almost ritualistically describes a time “before the divide of lands.” As she later contemplates the children swept up in the border crisis, the orchestra is tense, dissonant and unsettling.Mr. López is most creative — and restrained — in the fourth section, “A Dreamer Who Studied Linguistics,” which begins with an eerie buzz that grows like a swarm and, as it reaches a chaotic climax, cuts to silence for an aria about what it’s like to live in silence “with the secret / that I am landless.” Although the vocal line here is lyrical and direct, stormy orchestral interludes suggest inner turmoil.These moments, though, are short-lived. That passage about children is made unfortunately comical by Ms. Martínez’s shouting, later echoed by the choir to drive home loaded words like “killed” and “harm.” The mention of silence in “A Dreamer Who Studied Linguistics” is followed by singers whispering the word “silence.” (We got it.)In future performances, such as one planned for the Houston Symphony, some heavy-handedness could stand to be pruned. Even with those trims, it would still be possible to get swept up in the oratorio’s glorious finale, an ultimately hopeful vision of a world where migration continues — again and again, forever, in a time beyond “lies,” “deceit” and “walls.”Follow Joshua Barone on Twitter: @joshbarone.DreamersPerformed on Sunday at Zellerbach Hall in Berkeley, Calif.AdvertisementIt has long been an open secret that some farms survive by relying on an undocumented labor force. Now, tough immigration enforcement has caused a crisis.Eladio Beltran, 32, and two of his four children, Hady, 12, and Nisi, 10, stand outside their home in upstate New York. Mr. Beltran, originally from Mexico, has worked on farms in the United States for over a decade.CreditCreditLibby March for The New York TimesSupported byBy Christina Goldbaum[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]HOMER, N.Y. — The fears weigh on Mike McMahon: If one of his undocumented workers gets a traffic ticket, it could prompt an immigration audit of his entire farm. If another gets detained by immigration agents at a roadside checkpoint or in a supermarket parking lot, the rest may flee. And if his undocumented work force disappears overnight, there is no one to replace them.“It keeps me up at night,” said Mr. McMahon, who owns a dairy farm south of Syracuse. “There are people out there who just say, ‘Send them all back and build a wall.’ But they would be facing empty shelves in the grocery store if that were to happen.”It has long been an open secret in upstate New York that the dairy industry has been able to survive only by relying on undocumented immigrants for its work force. Now, this region has become a national focal point in the debate over President Trump’s crackdown on undocumented immigrants and their role in agriculture.The tensions have escalated to such a degree over the last year that Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo described federal agents as reckless, accusing Immigration and Customs Enforcement of violating the rights of farmers in pursuing undocumented immigrants.Mr. Cuomo was responding to a high-profile raid on a dairy farm, during which a farmer was briefly handcuffed after protesting that ICE agents were mistreating one of his workers. The farmer claimed ICE did not have a warrant to enter his farm.Mr. Cuomo is a Democrat, but Republicans who represent upstate New York in Congress have also come to the defense of the farmers.The pressures here reflect broader challenges facing farmers across the country who rely on undocumented workers. The farmers are struggling with a shrinking labor pool as fewer migrants cross illegally into the country and migrants who are long-term residents become too old for field work.This year the labor shortage has been compounded by Mr. Trump’s trade war and extreme weather, forcing some small farmers to switch to higher-value crops, to reduce their acreage and to consider selling their farms.If anything, the situation in upstate New York is more difficult.Smaller dairy farmers here have been some of the hardest hit by tougher immigration enforcement because their workers are subject to scrutiny from both ICE and the border patrol, which is allowed to operate within 100 miles of the border — in this case, with Canada.Agriculture contributes an estimated $37 billion to New York’s economy and is responsible for nearly 200,000 jobs.“We are seeing that the immigration enforcement is having a tremendous enforcement impact on farm workers, on farms,” said Mary Jo Dudley, director of the Cornell Farmworker Program. “For many farmers, there’s no alternative labor force.”To search private property like a farm, ICE needs a warrant that shows reason to believe a particular undocumented immigrant is living or working there. But if undocumented workers leave the farm to go to a grocery store, they can be approached by ICE agents in a parking lot or a roadside checkpoint, detained and deported.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]Advocates for undocumented immigrants said ICE agents target immigrants indiscriminately in these public spaces. But ICE disputes those claims.“ICE continues to focus its limited resources first and foremost on those who pose the greatest threat to public safety,” said an ICE spokesman, Khaalid Walls. “ICE only conducts targeted immigration enforcement. The agency does not conduct raids or sweeps that target aliens indiscriminately.”Supporters of stricter immigration policies said they were sympathetic to the plight of small farms. But they pointed out that the farms’ reliance on inexpensive, undocumented labor would handicap American agriculture in the long term.They argue that while immigration crackdowns could force farms to consolidate and mechanize and may be hard for individual farmers, it would make the industry more competitive globally.“The more productive policy response would be subsidized loans to invest in machinery for small-scale farmers, rather than revising how we import foreign workers and perpetuating the labor-intensive old-fashioned way of doing business,” said Mark Krikorian, executive director for the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank that favors restricting immigration.Dairy farmers face particular challenges because without American workers, they have no alternative to migrant labor. The government program that brings in legal temporary workers does so only for seasonal workers and dairy farming is a year-round activity.In Washington, lawmakers representing dairy-heavy districts have tried to reform the legal foreign workers program to include year-round dairy workers.But so far, efforts have fallen short. These lawmakers are caught between staunch conservatives who consider any reprieve a form of amnesty and Democrats who want more comprehensive immigration reform, which would also address the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, and immigrants with Temporary Protected Status.“We’ll have detractors on both sides,” said Representative Chris Collins, a Republican in western New York.Still, Mr. Collins said, a solution is urgently required to keep dairy farms afloat while the political impasse over a comprehensive immigration package drags on. “There’s not a single person representing dairy that doesn’t understand it’s a crisis, a true crisis,” he said.He plans to introduce legislation in the coming weeks that would offer temporary employment authorization to year-round farmworkers on dairies as a stopgap measure.Deportations have been a concern for New York’s farmers and farm workers since the early 2000s, when the sudden enforcement of immigration laws led to a rash of immigration enforcement activities on farms across the state. After the Obama administration narrowed the pool of immigrants ICE prioritized for deportation, some sense of security returned to upstate farming communities, which was shattered when Mr. Trump took office.“We had heard things were starting to get bad, some wineries in the area and quite a few in the Finger Lakes started losing workers. It was almost immediately after Trump took office that ICE started snagging people,” said Kelly Raby, a vineyard owner in Lewiston.Last fall, Victor Pacheco, the foreman on Ms. Raby’s family farm for 23 years, was detained by ICE agents and deported to Mexico.Ms. Raby has struggled to find a foreman skilled enough to manage her vineyard, where the grapevines are now dusted in a light coat of snow and in need of winter pruning. This has left her uncertain about the future of their family farm and the president she helped vote into office.“I still agree with Trump in a lot of ways, but I’m more on the fence about him now,” Ms. Raby said. “I don’t want to lose the immigrants who are working here and growing our food.”Over the last 50 years, American farms have relied on two labor forces: migrants who settled in the United States during the migration wave of the 1960s and 1970s; and those who stayed temporarily, illegally crossing the border for each harvest season. But today, permanent migrants who settled are reaching their 60s, fewer and fewer seasonal migrants are coming to the United States, and enforcement operations are driving the few migrants left out of the state.“Today you go to work and you don’t know if you’ll come back home and be with your family again,” said Eladio Beltran, an immigrant from Mexico who works in an apple orchard in Albion. He is currently awaiting deportation proceedings after being pulled over by state troopers and taken into ICE custody.“Being undocumented and living in New York State is not worth it anymore,” he said.For dairy farmers like Mr. McMahon, if even one of his migrant workers leaves, the absence has a drastic effect on his 2,300-acre farm operation. He depends on having enough workers for round-the-clock shifts, seven days a week. They keep this schedule year-round, he said, to ensure his roughly 800 cows are milked three times a day, their calves are fed, and all cows are medically cared for.“What we really want is some kind of method of getting foreign workers legally,” Mr. McMahon said from his farm in Homer, about 30 miles south of Syracuse.Owners of apple orchards and vineyards, who can afford to, have also started turning to the H-2A program, the legal foreign worker program that brings agricultural labor to the United States for temporary work.Critics of the program argue that workers are often exploited by employers and risk deportation if they complain about mistreatment. Farmers complain that it is costly, complicated and laden with bureaucracy.“We didn’t really have a choice but to use to H-2A,” said Mark Nicholson of Red Jacket Orchards, which switched to using the program last year. “When the system works, it answers one of our biggest challenges to staying in business — and that’s having a reliable source of skilled farm labor. But when it doesn’t work, it dooms us to the same risk as before.”If the issue of undocumented farm workers is left unaddressed, there will be an impact across the supply chain. “There will be long-term consequences that not only our farms will deal with, but consumers will have to deal with as well,” said Steve Ammerman, the senior associate director of public policy at the New York Farm Bureau.Without a legal alternative to informal migrant labor, the competition between dairy farms to retain migrant workers is so fierce that farm owners, once notorious for underpaying and mistreating workers, are now improving working conditions and wages to entice employees to stay on their farms, workers said.Victor Cortez is an immigrant who has worked on a dairy farm in western New York for 18 years. A few years ago, farm owners “wouldn’t let us leave the farm,” he said, adding, “They wouldn’t pay us as much as they promised they would.”“But the good thing about it now,” he said, “is that we get paid more and this farmer is good to me.”Follow Christina Goldbaum on Twitter: @cegoldbaumOpinionShikha DalmiaAdvertisement