AdvertisementSupported byWhy immigration rhetoric that worked in 2016 doesn’t work today.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistThe people who didn’t want television networks to cede a prime-time hour last night — or, as it turned out, a prime-time 10 minutes — to the president of the United States were implicitly giving Donald Trump a credit that he does not deserve. There is a kind of silver-tongued orator who can persuade in any situation, who like Caesar’s Mark Antony can find a crowd leaning one way and leave them stirred up for the opposite cause, who is legitimately dangerous when given a rostrum or a soapbox or a prime-time speech. But that is not our president: His rhetoric is a bludgeon, and what we saw last night was just an attempt to club his enemies and critics with the same arguments he’s made a thousand times before.In fairness to Trump, the immigration bludgeon was effective once — for two reasons that played out in surprising ways across the 2016 campaign. First, Trump-the-candidate’s dire warnings about criminals and terrorists crossing the southern border dovetailed with two 2016-specific trends — the spike in violent crime after decades of decline, and the rash of Islamic State-inspired attacks on both sides of the Atlantic.Second, the extremity of his rhetoric persuaded skeptics of mass immigration, long burned by politicians of both parties, that Trump would not betray them. In a political landscape where every year seemed to bring a new bipartisan push for amnesties and immigration increases, his xenophobic style was an effective political marker for anyone with inchoate anxieties about immigration. You didn’t have to literally believe that he would build the Wall and make Mexico pay for it to regard that wild promise as evidence that he would be more genuinely restrictionist and hawkish on the issue than politicians merely paying lip service to “border security.”[Want to join the debate? Follow us on Instagram at @nytopinion.]But the problem for Trump is that presidents have to deal with changing circumstances and cope with unexpected crises, not just fulminate in the same style regardless of the context. And the world of 2019 looks different than the world in which he campaigned. The crime rate didn’t keep rising, the pace of terror attacks hasn’t quickened, and fate has given him an immigration crisis that’s substantially different than the crisis of murderers and terror plotters that he invoked in his campaign rhetoric — a humanitarian crisis, a crisis of families and children, in which the problem isn’t the people that we can’t catch crossing the borders but the people who surrender willingly, hoping to exploit our overstrained asylum system and disappear with their kids into the American interior.A more supple strategist and orator than our president might have been able to adapt his tough-guy proposals to this complicated new reality, and in the process to exploit the Democrats’ core vulnerability — their difficulty figuring out exactly what kind of deportation policies, if any, their base will allow them to support.Such an adaptation would have involved making two arguments in parallel. First, Trump could have argued that 15 years of increased spending on border security — walls and fencing and other barriers very much included — has played a big role in reducing the old kind of illegal immigration, in which single young men cross the border looking for work. My proposed wall, really an expansion of steel fencing, would build on this success, he could have said, and build on policies that Democrats once voted for, in order to make sure the old rates of illegal immigration don’t come back.Then, second, he could have explained the new challenge of family migration, admitted to mistakes (I know, imagine that) in the child separation policy of 2018, and emphasized that he’s asking for more money and various legal and administrative changes to ensure that inhumane conditions can be improved, that families can be kept together, that the system can adjudicate, process and deport without last year’s performative cruelty. He could have even talked about the attempts at deal making with Mexico, the attempt at a bilateral arrangement that our southern neighbor would keep migrants on its territory while they applied for asylum on ours.If you parsed last night’s 10 minutes of presidential words carefully enough you could find fragments of these arguments — but only fragments, shored around an argumentative edifice that was just the same old 2016-vintage Trumpian warnings about how (to quote Vox’s Dara Lind) “immigrants are coming across the border to kill you.”And this “IACATBTKY” argument just doesn’t match up with the news that most Americans consume. There is no rising immigrant crime wave at the moment, no wave of terror attacks by border jumpers, the immigrant caravan didn’t end in bloodshed, and the dominant images from the current border crisis are pictures of exhausted parents and frightened, uncomprehending kids.So what we heard from the president was a play to people deep in the Trumpian bubble, a pledge to his electoral rump that he’s still fighting the fights he promised two years ago even if the facts on the ground require a somewhat different strategy. Where the rest of the country was concerned, including many voters a more effective president would be trying to win over or win back, it was almost certainly just a waste of breath. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT AdvertisementAdvertisement

      By JOE WARD and 
    
ANJALI SINGHVI

JAN. 11, 2019

President Trump has frequently called the situation at the southern border with Mexico a crisis and insists that building his long-promised border wall will fix it. Here are some of Mr. Trump’s most common assertions of a crisis, and the reality of what we know about immigrants and the border.THE REALITY  Illegal border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades. In 2017, border-crossing apprehensions were at their lowest point since 1971.Total number of arrests for illegally crossing the Mexican borderGeorgeH.W. BushClintonGeorge W. BushObamaTrump1.5 million1.00.50’90’92’94’96’98’00’02’04’06’08’10’12’14’16’18Fiscal yearGeorgeH.W. BushClintonGeorge W. BushObama1.5 millionTrump1.00.50’90’00’10Fiscal yearUndetected illegal border crossings have dropped at an even faster rate, from 851,000 in 2006 to approximately 62,000 in 2016, according to estimates by the Department of Homeland Security.However, there is one group of migrants that is on the rise: families. A record number of families have tried to cross the border in recent months, overwhelming officials at the border and creating a new kind of humanitarian crisis.Number of arrests for illegally crossing the Mexican border30,000Nov. 2018People withfamily: 25,172Others: 21,40120,00010,000Unaccompaniedchildren: 5,283Jan. 2016JulyJan. 2017JulyJan. 2018JulyPeopletravelingwithfamily30,000Others20,00010,000Unaccompaniedchildren201620172018Asylum claims have also jumped, with many migrant families telling officials that they fear returning to their home countries. Seeking asylum is one way to legally migrate to the United States, but only 21 percent of asylum claims were granted in 2018, and many cases can take years to be resolved.THE REALITY  It is true that the majority of heroin enters the United States through the southern border, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. But the D.E.A. also says that most heroin is brought into the country in vehicles entering through legal border crossings, not through the areas where walls are proposed or already exist.Most drugs are seized at ports of entry, not along the open borderDRUG SEIZURES:AT PORTS OF ENTRYBETWEEN PORTS OF ENTRYHeroin90%10%Cocaine88%12%Methamphetamine87%13%Fentanyl80%20%Marijuana39%61%DRUG SEIZURES:AT PORTS OF ENTRYBETWEEN PORTS OF ENTRY90%10%Heroin88%12%Cocaine87%13%Methamphetamine80%20%Fentanyl39%61%MarijuanaThere are more than two dozen ports of entry along the southern border. Barriers are already present in Border Patrol sectors with the highest volumes of heroin seizures.Heroin seizures in each Border Patrol sector, 2017Weight in pounds2006001,000CALIF.U.S. BorderPatrol sectorsNEW MEXICOARIZONAEl Centro275TEXASEl Paso93Yuma223Tucson979San Diego2,365Rio Grande432Del Rio154Big Bend18Laredo503Portsof entryGULFOFMEXICOPACIFICOCEANExisting barriersalong the borderMEXICONU.S. BorderPatrolsectorsCALIF.NEW MEXICOEl Centro275ARIZONATEXASEl Paso93Yuma223Tucson979RioGrande432San Diego2,365Del Rio154Laredo503Big Bend18Portsof entryGULFOFMEXICOExisting barriersalong the borderPACIFICOCEANMEXICONU.S. BorderPatrolsectorsNEW MEXICOTEXASCALIF.ARIZONAEl Centro275El Paso93Yuma223Del Rio154Tucson979Laredo503Big Bend18San Diego2,365Ports ofentryExisting barriersalong the borderNRio Grande432MEXICOPACIFICOCEANNEWMEXICOCALIF.ARIZONATEXAS25314768Existing barriersalong the borderPorts ofentryN9MEXICOPACIFICOCEANSan Diego, 2,365Big Bend, 1816El Centro, 275Del Rio, 15427Yuma, 223Laredo, 50338Tucson, 979Rio Grande, 43249El Paso, 935THE REALITY  It is difficult to assess the president’s claims that illegal immigration leads to more crime because few law enforcement agencies release crime data that includes immigration status. However, several studies have found no link between immigration and crime, and some have found lower crime rates among immigrants.Texas, which has the longest border with Mexico and has one of the largest populations of undocumented immigrants of any state, keeps track of immigration status as part of its crime data. The Cato Institute, a libertarian research center, analyzed the Texas data for 2015 and found that the rate of crime among undocumented immigrants was generally lower than among native-born Americans.Conviction rates are lower for immigrant populations in TexasNumber of convictions for every 100,000 residents in each group, 2015All crimeHomicideSex crimeLarcenyNative born1,7973.128.6267Undocumentedimmigrants8992.626.462Legalimmigrants6111.08.974All crimeHomicideNative born1,7973.1Undocumentedimmigrants8992.6Legalimmigrants6111.0Sex crimeLarcenyNative born28.6267Undocumentedimmigrants26.462Legalimmigrants8.974Some critics of the study argued that the reason undocumented immigrant conviction rates were low was because immigrants were deported after they served their sentences, which prevented them from committing another crime in the United States, reducing their rate of crime relative to native-born Americans.Alex Nowrasteh, senior immigration policy analyst at the institute, addressed the complaint by comparing first-time criminal conviction rates among undocumented immigrants in Texas and native-born Americans in Texas. He found that undocumented immigrants still committed crimes at a rate “32 percent below that of native-born Americans.”President Trump frequently tells the stories of Americans who have been killed by undocumented immigrants as examples of criminal behavior. These terrible crimes have happened, but there is no comprehensive data that shows whether these killings are happening at crisis levels.Photographs by Ilana Panich-Linsman, Caitlin O’Hara and Mauricio Lima for The New York TimesAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesPresident Trump delivered an address to the nation on Tuesday night from the Oval Office to make a broad-based public push for border wall funding.After his speech, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leaders, delivered a response from Capitol Hill.[Read our live analysis and fact checks of the remarks here.]The following are transcripts of both Mr. Trump’s speech and the Democratic rebuttal, as prepared by The New York Times.__________PRESIDENT TRUMP: My fellow Americans, tonight I’m speaking to you because there is a growing humanitarian and security crisis at our southern border.Every day, Customs and Border Protection agents encounter thousands of illegal immigrants trying to enter our country. We are out of space to hold them, and we have no way to promptly return them back home to their country. America proudly welcomes millions of lawful immigrants who enrich our society and contribute to our nation, but all Americans are hurt by uncontrolled illegal migration.It strains public resources and drives down jobs and wages. Among those hardest hit are African-Americans and Hispanic-Americans. Our southern border is a pipeline for vast quantities of illegal drugs including meth, heroin, cocaine, and fentanyl. Every week, 300 of our citizens are killed by heroin alone. Ninety percent of which floods across from our southern border. More Americans will die from drugs this year than were killed in the entire Vietnam War.In the last two years, ICE officers made 266,000 arrests of aliens with criminal records including those charged or convicted of 100,000 assaults, 30,000 sex crimes, and 4,000 violent killings. Over the years, thousands of Americans have been brutally killed by those who illegally entered our country and thousands more lives will be lost if we don’t act right now.This is a humanitarian crisis. A crisis of the heart, and a crisis of the soul. Last month, 20,000 migrant children were illegally brought into the United States, a dramatic increase. These children are used as human pawns by vicious coyotes and ruthless gangs. One in three women are sexually assaulted on the dangerous trek up through Mexico. Women and children are the biggest victims, by far, of our broken system.This is the tragic reality of illegal immigration on our southern border. This is the cycle of human suffering that I am determined to end. My administration has presented Congress with a detailed proposal to secure the border and stop the criminal gangs, drug smugglers, and human traffickers. It’s a tremendous problem.Our proposal was developed by law enforcement professionals and border agents at the Department of Homeland Security. These are the resources they have requested to properly perform their mission and keep America safe. In fact, safer than ever before.The proposal from homeland security includes cutting edge technology for detecting drugs, weapons, illegal contraband and many other things. We have requested more agents, immigration judges to process the sharp rise of unlawful migration fueled by our very strong economy.Our plan also contains an urgent request for humanitarian assistance and medical support. Furthermore, we have asked Congress to close border security loopholes so that illegal immigrant children can be safely and humanely returned back home.Finally, as part of an overall approach to border security, law enforcement professionals have requested $5.7 billion for a physical barrier. At the request of Democrats it will be a steel barrier rather than a concrete wall. This barrier is absolutely critical to border security. It’s also what our professionals at the border want and need. This is just common sense.The border wall would very quickly pay for itself. The cost of illegal drugs exceeds $500 billion a year. Vastly more than the $5.7 billion we have requested from Congress. The wall will also be paid for indirectly by the great new trade deal we have made with Mexico.Senator Chuck Schumer, who you will be hearing from later tonight, has repeatedly supported a physical barrier in the past along with many other Democrats. They changed their mind only after I was elected president.Democrats in Congress have refused to acknowledge the crisis and they have refused to provide our brave border agents with the tools they desperately need to protect our families and our nation.The federal government remains shut down for one reason, and one reason only, because Democrats will not fund border security. My administration is doing everything in our power to help those impacted by the situation, but the only solution is for Democrats to pass a spending bill that defends our borders and reopens the government.This situation could be solved in a 45 minute meeting. I have invited congressional leadership to the White House tomorrow to get this done. Hopefully we can rise above partisan politics in order to support national security.Some have suggested a barrier is immoral. Then why do wealthy politicians build walls, fences, and gates around their homes? They don’t build walls because they hate the people on the outside but because they love the people on the inside. The only thing that is immoral is the politicians to do nothing and continue to allow more innocent people to be so horribly victimized.America’s heart broke the day after Christmas when a young police officer in California was savagely murdered in cold blood by an illegal alien, just came across the border. The life of an American hero was stolen by someone who had no right to be in our country. Day after day, precious lives are cut short by those who have violated our borders.In California, an air force veteran was raped, murdered, and beaten to death with a hammer by an illegal alien with a long criminal history. In Georgia, an illegal alien was recently charged with murder for killing, beheading, and dismembering his neighbor. In Maryland, MS-13 gang members who arrived in the United States as unaccompanied minors were arrested and charged last year after viciously stabbing and beating a 16-year-old girl.Over the last several years I have met with dozens of families whose loved ones were stolen by illegal immigration. I have held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief stricken fathers. So sad, so terrible. I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices, and the sadness gripping their souls. How much more American blood must we shed before Congress does its job?To those who refuse to compromise in the name of border security, I would ask, imagine if it was your child, your husband, or your wife whose life was so cruelly shattered and totally broken. To every member of Congress: pass a bill that ends this crisis. To every citizen, call Congress, and tell them to finally, after all of these decades, secure our border.This is a choice between right and wrong, justice and injustice. This is about whether we fulfill our sacred duty to the American citizens we serve. When I took the oath of office, I swore to protect our country and that is what I will always do so help me god.Thank you and good night.__________SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI: Good evening.I appreciate the opportunity to speak directly to the American people tonight about how we can end this shutdown and meet the needs of the American people. Sadly much of what we heard from President Trump throughout this senseless shutdown has been full of misinformation and even malice. The president has chosen fear. We want to start with the facts.The fact is on the very first day of this Congress, House Democrats passed Senate Republican legislation to reopen government and fund smart, effective border security solutions. But the president is rejecting these bipartisan bills which would reopen government over his obsession with forcing American taxpayers to waste billions of dollars on an expensive and ineffective wall, a wall he always promised Mexico would pay for.The fact is, President Trump has chosen to hold hostage critical services for the health, safety, and well-being of the American people, and withhold the paychecks of 800,000 innocent workers across the nation, many of them veterans.He promised to keep the government shutdown for months or years, no matter whom it hurts. That’s just plain wrong. The fact is, we all agree we need to secure our borders while honoring our values. We can build the infrastructure and roads at our ports of entry. We can install new technology to scan cars and trucks for drugs coming into our nation. We can hire the personnel we need to facilitate trade and immigration at the border. We can fund more innovation to detect unauthorized crossings.The fact is, the women and children at the border are not a security threat. They are a humanitarian challenge, a challenge that President Trump’s own cruel and counterproductive policies have only deepened. And the fact is, President Trump must stop holding the American people hostage and stop manufacturing a crisis, and must reopen the government.Thank you. Leader Schumer.SENATOR CHUCK SCHUMER: Thank you, Speaker Pelosi.My fellow Americans, we address you tonight for one reason only. The president of the United States, having failed to get Mexico to pay for his ineffective, unnecessary border wall, and unable to convince the Congress or the American people to foot the bill, has shut down the government.American democracy doesn’t work that way. We don’t govern by temper tantrum. No president should pound the table and demand he gets his way or else the government shuts down. Hurting millions of Americans who are treated as leverage.Tonight, and throughout this debate and throughout his presidency, president trump has appealed to fear, not facts. Division, not unity. Make no mistake, Democrats and the president both want stronger border security. However, we sharply disagree with the president about the most effective way to do it.So, how do we untangle this mess? Well, there’s an obvious solution. Separate the shutdown from arguments over border security. There is bipartisan legislation supported by Democrats and Republicans to reopen government while allowing debate over border security to continue.There is no excuse for hurting millions of Americans over a policy difference. Federal workers are about to miss a paycheck. Some families can’t get a mortgage to buy a new home. Farmers and small businesses won’t get loans they desperately need.Most presidents have used Oval Office addresses for noble purposes. This president just used the backdrop of the Oval Office to manufacture a crisis, stoke fear, and divert attention from the turmoil in his administration.My fellow Americans, there is no challenge so great that our nation cannot rise to meet it. We can reopen the government and continue to work through disagreements over policy. We can secure our border without an ineffective, expensive wall. And we can welcome legal immigrants and refugees without compromising safety and security.The symbol of America should be the Statue of Liberty, not a 30 foot wall. So our suggestion is a simple one. Mr. President, reopen the government, and we can work to resolve our differences over border security. But end this shutdown now.Thank you.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThat kind of language allows critics to dismiss me and fellow pro-lifers as single-issue obsessives.By Charles C. CamosyMr. Camosy is a board member of Democrats for Life of America.The struggle in the abortion debate is, in many ways, a struggle over language.For example, I am pro-life. I strongly support rights and protections for mothers and children, including prenatal children, and other vulnerable populations. I want to see the laws of this country protect these people as well. In my view, this makes me pro-life. That’s why I use the phrase “prenatal child” where other people would say “fetus.”In the view of those people, and of mainstream news outlets, I am not pro-life; I am anti-abortion. This language allows critics to dismiss me and fellow pro-lifers as single-issue obsessives, which we are not.In recent years abortion-rights supporters moved from using neutral language like “autonomy” and “choice” toward using positive, stigma-defying language. Groups like Planned Parenthood now speak about “abortion care.” Oprah profiled activists who urge people to #ShoutYourAbortion. Billboards erected by abortion-rights supporters proudly say that abortion is a “family value.”Defying stigma is one thing. But the stakes of this debate are never higher than when we decide on language to describe the object of abortion.The New York Times editorial board, for instance, recently used the phrase “clusters of cells that have not yet developed into viable human beings,” in a discussion of rights being extended to a fetus in the womb, or what I call a prenatal child.Language like this ignores the fact that each of us once existed as “clusters of cells that have not yet developed into viable human beings.” It seeks to hide the fact that by the time most surgical abortions take place, a prenatal child has electrical activity in the brain and a beating heart.Other words and phrases used in the discussion about abortion seek to obscure this reality as well: “tissue,” “part of the mother,” “parasite,” “potential life.” Even the term “fetus” is dehumanizing. Outside of an abortion context, an obstetrician-gynecologist doesn’t generally speak to a mother about her fetus. She talks to her about her baby. Family and friends organize baby showers, not fetus showers. A mother-to-be has a baby bump, not a fetus bump. She is “with child,” not “with fetus.” It is not unusual for major news outlets, such as the BBC, to use the phrase “unborn babies” when they report on new prenatal surgical techniques.We have shifted our language in ways that hide the dignity of the vulnerable, in this instance and on issues far from the abortion debate as well. This is part of what Pope Francis calls “throwaway culture.” What he is describing is often connected with the excesses of consumerism, a culture in which human beings whose dignity is most inconvenient are discarded as mere objects. Such a culture requires the use of language that deadens one’s capacity to show concern for those who need it most.Pope Francis has saved some of his strongest language for condemning abortion. But he consistently applies his concern about throwaway culture to other populations. Rehumanize International, a pro-life group, has done research on how this culture affects different populations, including racial minorities, people with disabilities, older people, immigrants and refugees, enemy combatants and prisoners. The research has found tragic patterns in which marginalized populations are referred to as sub-humans, defective humans, parasites — and in the process become thought of as objects, things and products.The Trump administration’s forced separation of immigrant children from their parents is a classic example of using people as objects. The administration’s ill-conceived attempt to use the profound suffering of children to deter illegal immigration failed to respect these children as human beings deserving of care and respect, not objects to be used as a means to an end.As Bishop Daniel E. Flores of the Diocese of Brownsville, Tex., noted when the policy was first underway: “Children are not instruments of deterrence. They are children.”Throwaway culture has infected our attitude toward undocumented immigrants generally. We hire migrants for low-wage jobs, paying them less than minimum wage and refusing to pay overtime rates and standard benefits — while at the same time refusing them the basic dignity of human equality. Dehumanizing language gets us to this point. Political leaders and others dismiss migrants as “illegals.” Or as “swarms” of “undesirables” and “parasites.” Some even dismiss this population as “rapists” and “animals.”A genuine concern for justice for the most vulnerable — one directed at something other than advancing a particular political agenda — must resist throwaway culture across issues that transcend our crumbling right-left politics. People who are committed to justice for the most vulnerable will be on the alert for dehumanizing language intended to confirm biases and serve the interests of those who hold power over the weak.Doing so is particularly important at this moment. We are likely to see a newly intense debate over abortion at our newly constituted Supreme Court. If we are to avoid the hopelessly stale culture-war debates of the 1970s, then we must refuse the false choice between supporting vulnerable women and protecting vulnerable prenatal children. It will mean genuinely wrestling with the complexity of doing both. And it will mean engaging the arguments of our perceived opponents in good faith.Charles C. Camosy (@ccamosy), a board member of Democrats for Life of America, is an associate professor at Fordham University and the author of the forthcoming “Resisting Throwaway Culture.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byBy Paulina Villegas and Elisabeth MalkinTIJUANA, Mexico — With the bullhorn of a nationally televised address and the prestige of the White House around him, President Trump delivered a dark, if familiar, message to the American people on Tuesday night: The United States needs a border wall to stanch the flow of drugs and criminals, and it has no more room for migrants.In Mexico — the supposed origin and pipeline of these menaces — leaders and citizens reacted with a weary shrug.In the Mexican border city of Tijuana, where thousands of migrants have gathered seeking entry to the United States, most of the televisions in a downtown restaurant showed soccer matches and basketball games. Mr. Trump’s voice, nearly drowned out by music, emerged faintly from a screen in the back.Almost no one seemed to care, or even listen to what the American president had to say.Luis Arce, a 32-year-old lawyer, was among the few who took a moment to reflect on Mr. Trump’s speech. He said he was not surprised by Mr. Trump’s insistence on building a wall, nor by anything else in the remarks.“It’s a tantrum,” Mr. Arce said. “We all know he is temperamental and will never back down on this whim of his, especially since he promised it since his campaign and seems like he can’t take it back.”“A wall will clearly not solve drug addiction, the drug trade, weapons smuggling or illegal immigration,” he added. “Those are problems that have to be addressed and solved by policymaking.”The situation at Mexico’s northern border would seem to demand urgent policymaking, as the migrants gathering at cities like Tijuana have become a humanitarian and political crisis for Mexico.The demands of trying to shelter migrants and improve squalid, crowded conditions have overwhelmed local officials, and the arrival of the migrants has strained relations with the United States. Last week, Mexico called for an investigation into American officers’ repeated use of tear gas across the border.Yet the reaction to Mr. Trump’s speech on Tuesday night was muted.Although only several weeks into his term, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador has gone out of his way not to antagonize his American counterpart. After Mr. Trump’s address, he appeared to weigh his words carefully.In a long interview with a Mexican news program, Mr. López Obrador said Mexico would always pursue “a relationship of cooperation, of friendship.” His government, he said, will confront migration “with development, with employment.”After the interview, reporters asked Mr. López Obrador about Mr. Trump’s speech and his insistence on the wall.“I don’t even want to mention the word,” Mr. Lopez Obrador said. “It’s an issue that’s not even on our agenda. I don’t think about it.”Instead, the president said, he would try to bring Mr. Trump around to his way of thinking.“We will persuade him, convince him that we need cooperation for development,” he said. “This is the best way to face the phenomenon of migration.”Vicente Fox, the vocal former president of Mexico, has berated Mr. Trump in the past, and on Tuesday he appeared to see no reason to let up, dismissing the American leader on Twitter: “L’enfant terrible. The enemy of all! Even himself.”Mr. Fox urged Mr. Trump, “Don’t be so stubborn,” saying that Mexico would never pay for the wall and that “as far as I understand the American people will not either.”From the day he announced his candidacy for office in 2015, Mr. Trump has made the reduction of immigration — and the construction of a wall — a central issue of his campaign and presidency, sometimes promising that Mexico would pay for the wall. He has since claimed a revised trade agreement with Mexico and Canada would pay for the wall, an idea rejected on Tuesday by Kenneth Smith Ramos, the chief Mexican negotiator for the deal.“That’s a chapter you will NOT find in the new Agreement, simply because it does NOT exist,” he wrote on Twitter.In a series of fact-checking tweets about the speech, Arturo Sarukhan, Mexico’s former ambassador to the United States, rejected many of Mr. Trump’s claims. “Saying there is a national security crisis on the border does a huge disservice to how the US and Mexico have worked together since 9/11 to ensure our border is not used by terrorists to undermine our common security,” he wrote.On Monday, Mexico’s interior minister, Olga Sánchez Cordero, staked out a position that was in implicit contrast to Mr. Trump’s.“Migrants are not criminals, much less do they constitute a threat to the security of Mexico or the United States,” she said. “They are human beings who seek to escape the reality of insecurity and poverty in their countries of origin, who seek the most elemental thing: the possibility of remaining alive and finding a job that will allow them to advance with dignity.”But although she said Mexico was open and willing to work with the United States, the two sides are still far apart on the nature of the problem itself.Mexicans in Tijuana noted as much on Tuesday, when Mr. Trump spoke.Daniel Gómez, the manager of the bar airing the speech, called it “bad news” that would discourage tourism and hurt the Mexican economy.“It is so frustrating to listen to him say the same things, which are nothing more than excuses to justify the massive problems that exists in the U.S. and blame it all on the foreigner, the Mexican, the other,” he said.“It’s infuriating because we can’t do absolutely anything about it,” he said. “All we can do is what we are doing right now, which is to sit down and watch it from afar.”Follow Elisabeth Malkin and Paulina Villegas on Twitter: @ElisabethMalkin and @Paulina_VV.AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byFact-Check President Trump cited an array of statistics to paint a portrait of widespread criminal conduct by undocumented immigrants. Here’s the context behind them. By Linda QiuWhat WAS Said23% of Federal inmates are illegal immigrants. Border arrests are up 240%. In the Great State of Texas, between 2011 & 2018, there were a total of 292,000 crimes by illegal aliens, 539 murders, 32,000 assaults, 3,426 sexual assaults and 3000 weapons charges. Democrats come back!Twenty-two days into the longest government shutdown ever, President Trump continued to press his case for a border wall. His tweet on Saturday was crammed with statistics that were either exaggerated or omitted important context. Immigrant prison populationMr. Trump’s figure for the percentage of unauthorized immigrants in federal prisons is exaggerated.Out of the Bureau of Prisons’ total inmate population of 183,058 in the first quarter of the 2018 fiscal year, 21 percent were immigrants, both legal and undocumented, according to a government report. At least 13 percent of the total population, or 23,826 inmates, were in the country unlawfully. The immigration status of another 11,698 inmates was under investigation, while 2,608 inmates were lawful immigrants or had received relief from deportation.The most common crimes committed by these immigrants were drug-related offenses (46 percent) and immigration offenses (29 percent). It’s worth noting, too, that about half of the arrests made by the federal government are for immigration-related offenses, perhaps explaining the high proportion of immigrants in federal prisons. The report acknowledges that it does not include data from state and local prisons, which house 90 percent of all inmates in the United States.Border arrestsMr. Trump did not give a time frame for his 240 percent figure, nor did he specify what the number referred to, which may give the misleading impression that border crossings overall have increased threefold. The figure instead refers to a surge in families attempting to cross at the southwest border. The number of family units apprehended at the border more than tripled from 8,120 in December 2017 to 27,518 in December 2018, overwhelming immigration officials and creating a new humanitarian crisis.Overall, illegal border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades, and in the 2017 fiscal year, border crossing apprehensions were at their lowest point since 1971. In the 2018 fiscal year, however, annual apprehensions did increase by 30 percent from the previous fiscal year.Immigrant criminals in TexasMr. Trump’s figures are accurate, but they need context. The Texas Department of Public Safety did report that the 186,000 unauthorized immigrants booked into local jails from 2011 to 2018 faced 292,000 charges.The caveats: These offenses did not necessarily occur during that eight-year time frame. More than half of these charges were uncategorized. And the charges Mr. Trump singled out did not always result in convictions (238 for homicide, 13,559 for assault, 1,689 for sexual assault and 1,280 for weapons).For comparison, data from the Texas Department of Public Safety shows that some 7.5 million arrests were made from 2010 to 2017 (data for 2018 was not yet available), including 6,161 for murder, 177,000 for aggravated assault, 14,000 for rape and nearly 89,000 for weapons charges. A 2018 study from the libertarian Cato Institute found that in Texas, conviction and arrest rates for illegal immigrants were lower than those for native-born Americans for most crimes.An earlier version of this article misstated the data included in a government report on immigrants in prison. The report does not include data from state and local prisons.Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court added eight cases to its docket on Friday, including ones on how gun laws apply to undocumented immigrants and whether the police may have blood drawn from unconscious motorists suspected of drunken driving.The court took no action on an unusually large number of pending petitions on significant issues, including President Trump’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation and to bar most transgender people from military service.Other petitions under consideration concern an Indiana abortion law, a New York City gun control ordinance, a New Jersey ruling barring government grants to repair churches and whether a federal civil rights law prohibits job discrimination against gay, lesbian and transgender workers.If the court is to hear any of those cases this term, it will have to act soon. If it does not grant review by next week, the court’s past practices indicate that any cases it does eventually agree to hear will not be argued until its next term starts in October.The case concerning immigrants and guns involves Hamid M. Rehaif, who came to the United States from the United Arab Emirates to study at the Florida Institute of Technology on a student visa. He was dismissed for academic reasons after three semesters but stayed in the United States.About a year after he left school, Mr. Rehaif went to a shooting range, rented a gun and bought ammunition. Six days later, a worker at a hotel where was staying told the authorities that he had been acting suspiciously. When he was questioned by an F.B.I. agent, Mr. Rehaif admitted to visiting the firing range. He allowed a search of his room, which turned up the remaining ammunition.Mr. Rehaif was charged with violating a federal law that makes it a crime for people “illegally or unlawfully in the United States” to possess “any firearm or ammunition.” Another provision of the law says that violations of it must be made knowingly. Mr. Rehaif was convicted and sentenced to a 18 months in prison.The question in the case, Rehaif v. United States, No. 17-9560, was whether prosecutors had to prove not only that Mr. Rehaif knew he possessed a gun or ammunition, but also that he knew he was in the United States unlawfully.The United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit affirmed his conviction, ruling that a trial judge had properly instructed the jury that “the government is not required to prove that the defendant knew that he was illegally or unlawfully in the United States.”In urging the Supreme Court to hear the case, Mr. Rehaif relied on a 2012 concurrence from Justice Neil M. Gorsuch, who at the time was a federal appeals court judge in Denver. Judge Gorsuch wrote that logic and the rules of grammar required proof that every element of the crime in question had been committed knowingly. “It makes no sense,” he wrote, “to read the word ‘knowingly’ as so modest that it might blush in the face of the very first element only to regain its composure and reappear at the second.”The case on drawing blood from motorists, Mitchell v. Wisconsin, No. 18-6210, concerns Gerald P. Mitchell, a Wisconsin man arrested on suspicion of drunken driving. A police officer took him to a hospital, where he was slumped over and unresponsive. The officer instructed medical personnel to draw blood from Mr. Mitchell, and they found that his blood alcohol concentration was 0.22, which is above the legal limit for driving.It was Mr. Mitchell’s seventh offense for driving under the influence. He was convicted and sentenced to three years in prison, and he challenged his conviction on Fourth Amendment grounds.A splintered Wisconsin Supreme Court rejected that argument, relying on a state law that presumes drivers have consented to blood tests and punishes them if they decline to cooperate by revoking their driver’s licenses. The law says unconscious motorists are “presumed not to have withdrawn consent” to having their blood drawn.Twenty-eight states have similar laws, according to Mr. Mitchell’s petition seeking Supreme Court review, but some of them have been struck down after two recent Supreme Court decisions.In 2013, the court ruled that a warrant is ordinarily needed before drawing blood in drunken-driving investigations. In 2016, the court added that “motorists cannot be deemed to have consented to submit to a blood test on pain of committing a criminal offense.” In Mr. Mitchell’s case, the penalty of losing a driver’s license is a civil one.In urging the Supreme Court to deny review, lawyers for the state said Mr. Mitchell should not benefit because he “got so drunk that, after driving while under the influence, he passed out and became unconscious.”Mr. Mitchell should not, the state’s brief said, receive “the windfall of avoiding the lawful civil choice, which other drunk drivers must face, of having their blood drawn or losing their license.”Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Peter BakerWASHINGTON — As he makes his case for building a border wall, President Trump says that his predecessors have secretly confided in him that they should have done it themselves. The only problem: All of the living presidents say that’s not true.Former President Jimmy Carter said on Monday that he never had such a conversation with Mr. Trump, making him the last of the veterans of the Oval Office to dispute the assertion. “I have not discussed the border wall with President Trump and do not support him on the issue,” Mr. Carter said in a statement.Aides to the other living presidents — Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama — have all likewise denied Mr. Trump’s claim. Former President George Bush, who died in November, was in failing health throughout Mr. Trump’s administration and did not have any discussion with the current president about substantive issues, according to people close to him.This would not be the first time Mr. Trump has bragged about conversations that never happened. In 2017, he publicly claimed that the head of the Boy Scouts called him to praise a speech as the best ever given to the organization. He also asserted that the president of Mexico had called him to say that Mr. Trump’s enforcement efforts at the border were deterring Central Americans from crossing into Mexico because they knew they could no longer get into the United States.After both the Boy Scouts leader and President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico denied making such calls, the White House acknowledged that they never happened. But the president’s press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, insisted that Boy Scouts leaders and Mr. Peña Nieto had said things like that in person, just not on the telephone.Over the past two decades, there were large declines in apprehensions along the southwestern border with Mexico. In April 2017, apprehensions hit the lowest point over that time period, and in 2018 they have since increased to levels similar to those under President Barack Obama.Apprehensions at the southwestern border, by monthObama34,647BushAverage per month: 81,588Trump28,869150,000100,00050,000200120032005200720092011201320152017Apprehensions at the southwestern border, by monthTrump28,869Obama34,647Bush81,588 Average per month 150,000100,00050,00020012005200920132017Source: U.S. Customs and Border ProtectionBy The New York TimesThe White House did not respond to requests on Friday or Monday to explain the president’s latest statement. A senior administration official, who insisted on anonymity to address the matter, said Mr. Trump might have been referring to public comments made by previous presidents on behalf of border security, though not the wall specifically or directly to Mr. Trump.In an interview with “Today” on NBC aired Tuesday morning, Vice President Mike Pence defended the president’s comments while suggesting that they were not based on actual conversations with his predecessors.“I know the president has said that that was his impression from previous administrations, previous presidents,” Mr. Pence said. “I know I’ve seen clips of previous presidents talking about the importance of border security, the importance of addressing the issue of illegal immigration.”The issue came up on Friday when Mr. Trump held an expansive news conference in the Rose Garden about his standoff with Congress over funding for a wall. “This should have been done by all of the presidents that preceded me,” he said. “And they all know it. Some of them have told me that we should have done it.”While in office, the younger Mr. Bush signed legislation authorizing 700 miles of fencing. But he has said that stronger border enforcement should be paired with an overhaul of rules making it possible for some of the millions of immigrants in the country illegally to stay. A spokesman said Mr. Bush had not discussed the issue with Mr. Trump. Mr. Clinton, Mr. Obama and Mr. Carter are on record opposing Mr. Trump’s wall.Mr. Trump has not interacted with any of his predecessors in any meaningful way since his inauguration. None of the five former presidents alive when Mr. Trump was elected in 2016 voted for him, even the Republicans. The elder Mr. Bush voted for Hillary Clinton, and the younger Mr. Bush told the author Mark K. Updegrove that he voted for “none of the above.”Mr. Trump has not met with any of his predecessors in two years in office. He called the younger Mr. Bush to offer condolences when his father died, and the first time he saw any of the former presidents since taking office was at the funeral a few days later. He shook Mr. Obama’s hand and Mr. Bush came over to shake his, but none of the former presidents had any extended words with the incumbent.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriThe parents of a woman who was fatally shot in San Francisco by an undocumented immigrant in 2015 cannot sue the city for freeing the man without telling federal immigration authorities just months before the shooting, a federal appeals court ruled this week.  President Trump has highlighted the case in his attacks on illegal immigration and sanctuary cities.Kathryn Steinle, 32, was shot by Jose Ines Garcia Zarate in July 2015 as she was walking on a San Francisco pier. Mr. Garcia Zarate, an undocumented immigrant who had been deported several times, had been freed by the San Francisco Sheriff’s Department less than three months earlier after charges against him were dropped in a separate drug case.In a trial that lasted more than five weeks, Mr. Garcia Zarate was acquitted by a jury in November 2017 on murder and manslaughter charges but convicted of being a felon in possession of a firearm. He said he had fired the gun by accident, and evidence presented at the trial indicated the bullet had ricocheted.Mr. Garcia Zarate was sentenced in January 2018 to the three years he had already served in prison pending trial. He faces two federal firearms charges in a separate case stemming from the July 2015 shooting. He has pleaded not guilty.The case gained national attention as Mr. Trump seized on it as an example of what he called the problems with illegal immigration and sanctuary cities, which seek to limit cooperation with federal immigration authorities. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement had asked the sheriff’s department to hold Mr. Zarate, but he was released in April 2015 “without notification to ICE,” according to Tuesday’s appellate court decision.Ms. Steinle’s parents filed a wrongful-death suit against the city and sheriff in 2016.Tuesday’s decision by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed a lower court’s ruling that said that the authorities in San Francisco cannot be held liable for Ms. Steinle’s death.“Kathryn Steinle’s death was a senseless tragedy,” the San Francisco City Attorney’s Office said in a statement Tuesday. “As a city, we are heartbroken for her family and continue to grieve for their loss. The issue before the court was whether the city and its taxpayers can be held liable under these circumstances for the actions of a former inmate. The appellate court affirmed that the city is not liable and that federal law did not compel the sheriff to act differently than he did.”The statement said the ruling “allows the city to decide what policies are best to protect all of its residents and make communities safer.”A lawyer for Mr. Garcia Zarate declined to comment on Tuesday night.Lawyers for the parents of Ms. Steinle did not immediately return calls for comment, and a phone call to a number listed for her father was not immediately returned.It’s not clear whether they plan to appeal Tuesday’s ruling.They still have pending claims against the United States over the gun used in the fatal shooting, which was stolen from a federal Bureau of Land Management ranger’s vehicle, according to the appellate court decision.Ms. Steinle’s death fed into a fierce debate over how law enforcement should approach immigrants without legal status; Mr. Garcia Zarate had been deported to Mexico at least five times from 1993 to 2011, according to court documents.Mr. Trump repeatedly invoked her killing as he campaigned for president with a hard-line stance on immigration.Elisha Brown contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNot so long ago, the party had a clear platform. It no longer does.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.The Democratic Party no longer has a clear policy on immigration.It used to, not so long ago. The party’s leaders knew what they favored and felt comfortable saying so. Their platform generally included: 1) a path to citizenship for immigrants who came to this country illegally but had since obeyed the law; 2) deportation of undocumented immigrants who had since broken the law in significant ways; 3) fairly robust border security and investigation of companies employing undocumented immigrants, to hold down current and future levels of illegal immigration.Besides favoring these policies, Democrats were also willing to talk about the benefits of limiting immigration and of assimilation. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Consider this 2015 statement from Bernie Sanders: “What right-wing people in this country would love is an open-border policy … I don’t believe in that. I think we have to raise wages in this country.”Or this 2006 line from Barack Obama, in his book, “The Audacity of Hope”: “When I see Mexican flags waved at pro-immigration demonstrations, I sometimes feel a flush of patriotic resentment.”Or this comment last year from Hillary Clinton: “I think Europe needs to get a handle on migration.” It earned her immediate condemnation from progressives and a scathing story in The Times.I understand why the Democratic Party has moved to the left on immigration policy over the past few years. It is, in significant part, an honorable reaction to Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant racism and a desire to stand up for immigrants during his presidency. The Trump administration has separated immigrant children from their parents, and Democrats are trying to protect those families.What’s less clear to me is exactly what the Democratic Party’s new position on immigration is.Questions to answerAmong the questions that I’d like Democrats to answer:What kind of border security do you believe in? Do you favor the policies Obama put in place to reduce illegal immigration — or a different approach?Do you believe that immigrants who enter this country illegally should be allowed to stay? If not, which categories of undocumented immigrants should be at risk of deportation? (In a 2016 debate, Clinton and Sanders didn’t offer clear answers when Univision’s Jorge Ramos asked similar questions.)What do you believe should happen to future levels of legal immigration? And what should happen to the mix of different categories of immigration? Should family connections play as large a role as they now do? Should workplace skills continue to play a small role?Do you believe, as Sanders suggested in 2015, that more immigration can reduce wages, especially for lower-income workers and recent immigrants themselves?My own view is that the country benefits from significant limits on immigration. As David Frum notes in a recent cover story for The Atlantic, immigration levels were quite low for much of the 20th century — from roughly the 1910s through the 1970s. The slowdown helped many of the immigrants who arrived in the waves before 1910 (including parts of my family). They faced less competition in the labor market. Labor unions were more easily able to grow, because they were organizing an increasingly assimilated workforce. The immigration slowdown played a role in the great income surge of the post-World War II decades. Today, I’d favor a policy with a lot of similarities to the Democrats’ platform of the Obama years, including humane treatment of immigrants already here plus tight border security. I’d change the mix of immigration, to let in fewer low-skills immigrants and more high-skills immigrants. Doing so has the potential to reduce inequality and lift economic growth.I recognize that this platform is probably too conservative for many Democrats. But high levels of immigration, stretching over many decades, is not an American tradition. It’s something new, and it brings both upsides and downsides.For anyone who wants to think through the subject, I recommend Frum’s article. (The politician quotations above come from it.) For critiques of Frum’s piece, see Nancy LeTourneau in Washington Monthly and Noah Smith of Bloomberg Opinion.If nothing else, I’d urge Democrats to look at public opinion on immigration with an open mind. The polling isn’t as favorable as some of the recent conversation on the left has suggested. In a recent Gallup poll, 47 percent of Americans called illegal immigration a critical threat and another 30 percent called it an important threat.I wouldn’t call it either of those. But I do think it’s folly — both substantively and politically — to pretend that more immigration is always better than less. And I think it’s a mistake for Democrats to be so unclear about what their party’s immigration agenda is.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders discuss the resignation of Kirstjen Nielsen and President Trump’s recent comments about cracking down on immigration.To the Editor:Re “Kirstjen Nielsen Enforced Cruelty at the Border. Her Replacement Could Be Worse” (editorial, nytimes.com, April 7):Nancy Pelosi said of Kirstjen Nielsen’s departure as homeland security secretary, “It is deeply alarming that the Trump administration official who put children in cages is reportedly resigning because she is not extreme enough for the White House’s liking.” Madam Speaker paints this entire nightmare in a few brief descriptive strokes. This pretty much sums up the entire Trump immigration policy. What more really needs to be said?Marge KellerChicagoTo the Editor:Re “Stoking Anti-Semitism Fears, Trump Courts Jews” (news article, April 7):In your report on President Trump’s speech to the Republican Jewish Coalition, you quote him saying of asylum seekers: “You can’t come in. Our country is full. What can we do? We can’t handle any more.” Apparently the speech was received with “raucous applause and cheers.” Really? Is memory so short that people have forgotten the St. Louis, a ship carrying more than 900 Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany that was turned away?John WiseGuerneville, Calif.To the Editor:In “Mr. Trump’s Terrible Border ‘Solutions’” (editorial, April 2), you claim that the Trump administration is “shooting America in the foot” by threatening to close the border with Mexico (now delayed) and cut off aid to Central American countries. Both of my parents were immigrants and waited years for citizenship. They did not just show up at the border and seek asylum. Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement lack the resources to protect our borders. Subsidies to El Salvador have not helped with the problem of illegal immigration. Even President Barack Obama’s homeland security secretary, Jeh Johnson, acknowledges that there is a crisis on our border.We need to deal with this problem. Why should we be giving aid to countries that have no strategic importance to us?We should instead redirect funds from those countries to our border security agencies. A wall is not a solution, but neither is giving money to Central American countries. Timothy ZranovEnglewood, Colo.To the Editor:Re “A Grand Compromise on Immigration,” by Peter King and Tom Suozzi (Op-Ed, March 25): Representatives King and Suozzi are to be commended for at least proposing a bipartisan solution to immigration reform. Opening a dialogue is the first step toward this solution. But their proposed $2,000 fee — which is the linchpin for funding their initiative — seems to bring us back to the issue of income inequality. The requirement that an undocumented person pay a $2,000 fee “to qualify for protection” appears to exclude those with fragile financial resources who simply cannot afford the fee. Like the poll tax, this fee requirement is not consistent with America’s democratic principles. It should not be part of legislation.Congress has a moral obligation to appropriate the necessary funds for administrative costs, border security and Central American aid without having to split the affected population into the haves and have-nots.Robert KleinNew YorkAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. Shear, Zolan Kanno-Youngs and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — President Trump’s purge of the nation’s top homeland security officials is a sign that he is preparing to unleash an even fiercer assault on immigration, including a possible return of his controversial decision last summer to separate migrant children from their parents, current and former administration officials said Monday.Mr. Trump shook up the ranks of his top immigration officials after spending months demanding that they take tougher action to stop the surge in migrant families at the border and seething about what he considers their overly legalistic refusals to do what he has said was necessary.That anger was underscored on Monday when a judge blocked Mr. Trump’s efforts to force asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while their cases proceed — a practice that immigration advocates called inhumane and illegal. Judge Richard Seeborg of the United States District Court for the Northern District of California ruled that existing law did not give Mr. Trump the power to enforce the policy, known as “migrant protection protocols.”The immediate targets of the president’s growing fury about the situation at the border were the officials who he saw as insufficiently steely minded: Kirstjen Nielsen, who resigned Sunday as the secretary of homeland security, and Ron Vitiello, whose nomination to permanently lead Immigration and Customs Enforcement was pulled after Mr. Trump remarked that “we want to go in a tougher direction.”But the longer term effect of the eruption of Oval Office frustration is likely to be a burst of hard-line policies that stand out even in an administration that has pursued an unprecedented series of executive actions and rules changes aimed at reducing legal and illegal immigration into the United States.In addition to urging Mr. Trump to revisit the idea of family separation, several of the president’s closest immigration confidants have been pushing him to consider even harsher measures.Those include further limits on who can seek asylum; stronger action to close ports of entry along the Mexican border; an executive order to end birthright citizenship; more aggressive construction of a border wall; and a more robust embrace of active-duty troops to secure the border against illegal immigration.In an administration that is famous for chaos and last-minute decision-making, it is unclear on which of those policies the president might choose to move forward. But by removing Ms. Nielsen, Mr. Vitiello and perhaps others, Mr. Trump is getting rid of voices who sometimes cautioned him against taking actions they believed to be illegal or unwise.“There was a perception that Secretary Nielsen was not as committed to the sort of full-throated approach that others in the administration, including the White House, were seeking,” said Seth Grossman, who served as deputy general counsel at the Department of Homeland Security from 2011 to 2015.He said Ms. Nielsen’s exit and Mr. Vitiello’s step back “signals there is an intention to pursue more aggressive policies.”Three senior administration officials with knowledge of the president’s conversations over the past several months confirmed that Mr. Trump has repeatedly told aides that he wants to restart the family separation policy. One of the officials said the president had made it clear to aides that he liked Ms. Nielsen personally, but was critical of her job performance. All three officials spoke about the internal discussions on the condition of anonymity.Stephen Miller, the architect of Mr. Trump’s immigration agenda and one of the president’s closest advisers in the White House, has been an advocate for a modified version of the family separation policy known as “binary choice.”Others, including Kris Kobach, the former Kansas secretary of state and an informal immigration adviser, and Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s former chief strategist, have also been urging tougher actions.Under a binary choice policy, which is highly controversial, migrant parents would be given a choice of whether to voluntarily allow their children to be separated from them, or to waive their child’s humanitarian protections so the family can be detained together, indefinitely, in jail-like conditions. Immigration advocates have said the idea is inhumane and would be found illegal by courts.Since President Trump’s inauguration, White House staffers and cabinet officials have left in firings and resignations, one after the other.Ms. Nielsen was the head of the department during the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy last year that led to the separation of thousands of families. More than 2,700 children were separated from their parents at the border under that policy to prosecute anyone caught crossing the border illegally, even those with families seeking asylum on humanitarian grounds.Mr. Trump eventually relented on the family separations, and a federal judge in California halted them in June. But in January, the inspector general of the Department of Health and Human Services reported that thousands more families might have been separated than previously reported.While Mr. Trump has been hampered by the law in his efforts to impose some new enforcement policies, there are certain things he can do without congressional approval.Those include shutting down ports of entries along the southwestern border and slowing down the process for both illegal and legal immigration.Last month, he closed American field offices abroad that had helped facilitate immigration applications. Mr. Trump has also limited the number of people who can request asylum each day through a process known as “metering,” and he has threatened to shut down traffic lanes and tariff trucks at the ports of entry.Jonathan Meyer, a former deputy general counsel at the Department of Homeland Security, said the Trump administration will continue to pursue hard-line immigration policies because they are important to the president’s political supporters, who helped fuel Mr. Trump’s success in the 2016 presidential campaign.“It appears that at times it’s less important in this administration, whether they lose or win in court, than to just say they’ve been able to have done it and have it as a talking point,” Mr. Meyer said. “And have an opportunity to criticize the courts if they lose.”Mr. Meyer said installing a new secretary at the department will further embolden Mr. Trump.“He’s willing to move forward and do things even when he knows he’s going to be sued for it and when the legality is in question,” Mr. Meyer said. “If that’s the position you take and if you have people willing to implement that strategy, there’s a lot of things you can do. But eventually you’re going to be hit with a temporary restraining order.”Mr. Grossman said Mr. Trump’s personnel moves were indeed a signal that the administration would embrace aggressive policies. But he added that Mr. Trump has threatened to enact such policies before, only to back off.The president could also be stymied by further court rulings blocking his efforts to crack down on immigrants.On Monday in California, the judge said in his ruling that in addition to violating immigration laws, the protocols did not include “sufficient safeguards” to comply with the Department of Homeland Security’s obligation against returning migrants to places where their “life or freedom would be threatened.”Immigration advocates hailed the decision, calling it the latest victory in the legal battles with the Trump administration that began when the president imposed a travel ban on several predominantly Muslim countries just days after taking office in 2017.“Try as it may, the Trump administration cannot simply ignore our laws in order to accomplish its goal of preventing people from seeking asylum in the United States,” said Judy Rabinovitz, the deputy director of the American Civil Liberties Union Immigrants’ Rights Project, who argued the case.The Trump administration had negotiated the protocols with the Mexican government because of the president’s longstanding anger with so-called catch and release policies in which asylum seekers are temporarily released into the United States while they wait for their court hearings.The policy of forcing some asylum seekers to wait in Mexico was an effort to stop that from happening. But the court ruling means that the president will have to abandon it, at least for the time being.Michael D. Shear and Zolan Kanno-Youngs reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting from Washington, and Caitlin Dickerson from New York.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zolan Kanno-Youngs and Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, on Wednesday tersely defended a now-defunct Trump administration practice of separating migrant children from their families at the border, sidestepping whether she supported it as a way to deter illegal immigration.In tense exchanges with House Democrats, Ms. Nielsen instead implored Congress to confront what she called a “humanitarian catastrophe” on the southern border by changing laws to crack down on illegal border crossings.She also said the Trump administration’s family separation practice was similar to those of previous presidents — even if only sporadically enforced in earlier cases.“It was a policy by this administration that only ended when there were pictures of little kids in cages that had been ripped away from their parents,” Representative Kathleen Rice, Democrat of New York, told Ms. Nielsen during a hearing of the House Homeland Security Committee.[Update: Kirstjen Nielsen out as Trump’s homeland security secretary.]Ms. Nielsen replied that Ms. Rice mischaracterized the administration’s enforcement.“That’s a policy,” Ms. Rice said. “You should admit it.”Ms. Nielsen noted that parents are generally separated from their children when they go to jail for illegal activities. But “that wasn’t the point” of the immigration policy, she said.“The point was to increase prosecutions for those breaking the law,” she added.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]The hearing was Ms. Nielsen’s first since Democrats took control of the House this year. She backed President Trump’s request to declare a national emergency at the border — which would give him access to funding to build a border wall — and cited new data from her department showing that the number of immigrants entering the United States illegally had doubled from a year ago.Immigration officials are on track to apprehend one million people crossing the southern border this year, Ms. Nielsen said.“This is not a manufactured crisis,” Ms. Nielsen said. “This is truly an emergency.”Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, later accused Democrats of refusing to acknowledge a crisis at the border. She also chastised Senate Republicans who did not support the president’s emergency declaration.“If you had done what you were elected to do on the front end, then the president would not have to fix the problem on his own through a national emergency,” Ms. Sanders said.Some Republicans at the House hearing said they supported building a wall along the border.Representative Daniel Crenshaw, Republican of Texas, acknowledged the concerns about family separations but said physical barriers were crucial to securing the long stretches of land between ports of entry.Mr. Crenshaw said he now doubted that “we all value the rule of law and value the ability to manage our border effectively” — a view he admitted was cynical.The Department of Homeland Security has opened three investigations into the Trump administration’s immigration policies, the agency’s acting inspector general, John V. Kelly, said in a separate hearing on Wednesday.Mr. Kelly said one investigation is looking into the department’s systems for tracking migrant children separated from their families; another is examining whether asylum-seeking families are being separated at the border.Department investigators were also reviewing whether parents facing deportation were given the option of bringing their children back home with them. In the hearing with Ms. Nielsen, Ms. Rice asked whether every relative facing deportation was, in fact, allowed to do so.“To the best of my knowledge, every parent was afforded that option,” Ms. Nielsen said.In the past, most undocumented immigrants entering the United States from Mexico were single men looking for work. But over the past year, the number of migrants traveling together as a family has soared — a point that Ms. Nielsen sought to underscore.Officials have said migrants — and the smugglers who exploit them — know they are unlikely to be detained if they travel with a child.Under a court order, the government is prohibited from keeping children in holding facilities at the border for more than 72 hours. Children must either be transferred to immigration detention facilities suitable for minors, or be released.The government has allowed thousands of detained migrants to go free each week because it lacks enough beds to hold them in family detention facilities. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a branch of Ms. Nielsen’s department, can accommodate only 3,326 parents and children in its three residential family centers.Democrats also criticized Ms. Nielsen for not adequately keeping track of migrant children who were separated from their parents last year.“You let kids be separated without tracking them. Do you know how outrageous that is, Madam Secretary?” said Representative Nanette Barragán, Democrat of California. “You have no feeling, no compassion, no empathy here.”Ms. Nielsen did not respond.The practice, part of a “zero tolerance” immigration policy that drew swift condemnation after it was publicly announced last spring, quickly became a symbol of the president’s crackdown on illegal immigration. At the time, Ms. Nielsen repeatedly denied that her department had a policy of routinely separating migrant children from their parents at the border, despite mounting evidence that thousands of families had been broken apart.During a news conference in June at the White House, she said she was offended by accusations that she would authorize separating children from their parents to send a message of deterrence. But the department continued to separate families until Mr. Trump, facing enormous public pressure, signed an executive order meant to end the policy.Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and the committee’s chairman, said he had requested documents on the treatment of asylum seekers at the border and family separations. After Wednesday’s hearing, Mr. Thompson told reporters that he expected that information within a week and was prepared to use subpoena powers as a “last resort.”“The secretary can choose whether to be complicit in this administration’s misinformation campaign,” Mr. Thompson said, “or she can correct the record.”For much of her tenure, Ms. Nielsen has been the subject of Mr. Trump’s ire over illegal immigration and border security.Mr. Trump berated her privately for not doing enough to stop illegal immigration and accelerate construction of a wall along the border with Mexico. The president grew repeatedly angry with Ms. Nielsen for telling him that his ideas to stop immigration would be illegal or improper.By year’s end, reports were rampant that Mr. Trump wanted to fire Ms. Nielsen, but her credibility with the president has since improved. During the government’s 35-day shutdown over funding for the president’s border wall, Ms. Nielsen was a fierce advocate for the wall.And on Wednesday morning, Ms. Nielsen made clear she would not stray far from the president’s anti-immigrant language.“We face a crisis — a real, serious and sustained crisis at our borders,” Ms. Nielsen said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Zolan Kanno-YoungsWASHINGTON — President Trump said on Thursday that he planned to give Mexico a “one-year warning” before closing the southern border, retreating on a threat he made last week that he would close the border in the coming days if Mexico did not halt all illegal immigration.“The only thing, frankly, better and less drastic than closing the border is tariff the cars coming in, and I will do it,” Mr. Trump said, speaking to reporters after a meeting with the White House Opportunity and Revitalization Council. “I don’t play games.”He added: “If the drugs don’t stop, or largely stop, we’re going to put tariffs on Mexico and products, in particular cars — the whole ballgame is cars. And if that doesn’t stop the drugs, we close the border.”[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]Mr. Trump cited the flow of drugs over the border as his red line. But last Friday, he announced on Twitter that “if Mexico doesn’t immediately stop ALL illegal immigration coming into the United States through our Southern Border, I will be CLOSING the Border, or large sections of the Border, next week.”Since then, the White House has backed off that time frame for an action that would carry severe economic consequences if Mr. Trump followed through with it. Nearly $1.7 billion of goods and services flow across the United States-Mexico border every day, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. About 500,000 legal workers, students, shoppers and tourists also cross the border daily.Mr. Trump’s latest reversal came after Republican lawmakers and his own economic advisers warned him of the consequences of the move. Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, said, “I would hope we would not be doing that sort of thing.”Furious lobbying by the president’s own economic advisers and a flood of incoming data from outside groups helped to shift the president’s thinking on shutting down the border, a person familiar with the situation said.Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council; Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers; and their deputies communicated to the president how economically disastrous the policy would be, including the effect on daily economic growth starting within 48 hours of the closing.White House officials had already been vague about the president’s plans to follow through on his threat. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, told reporters this week that Mr. Trump “is not working on a specific timeline.” And on Tuesday, during a meeting with Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO secretary general, the president said, “I haven’t made that intention known,” when asked specifically about his threat to close the border this week.Talking to reporters at the White House on Thursday, Mr. Trump said he was going to either close the southern border with America’s third-largest trading partner or “tariff the cars.” He said he would “probably start off with the tariffs.”But tariffs on cars coming across the southern border would largely drive up costs for American and European automakers — and their customers. Most of the cars and car parts coming from Mexico are intended for multinational automakers, including American car companies like General Motors and Ford.It is also unclear the degree to which Mr. Trump could impose auto tariffs under the terms of his newly renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement. While the new deal, called the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, has yet to be ratified, it includes a provision that exempts Mexican cars from tariffs as long as they stay below a certain level of imports. Only imports above that cap, which is quite high, would be eligible for a levy, the agreement states.The president is scheduled to travel to Calexico, Calif., on Friday for a photo op at a newly fortified section of the border.While Mr. Trump backed off his threats to immediately close the southern border, the Department of Homeland Security has reallocated officials working at the ports of entry to handle a surge of unauthorized crossings by large groups of migrants, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said on Monday. The move has resulted in long delays and increased traffic at ports of entry.Ms. Nielsen has also permitted Customs and Border Protection to reallocate as many as 2,000 officials from the ports. The move comes as more Central American families have crossed the border in recent months in search of asylum, leading to overflowing detention facilities and mass releases of migrants into cities along the border.Ana Swanson contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Haberman, Annie Karni and Eric SchmittPresident Trump last week privately urged Kevin McAleenan, the border enforcement official he was about to name as acting secretary of homeland security, to close the southwestern border to migrants despite having just said publicly that he was delaying a decision on the step for a year, according to three people briefed about the conversation.It was not clear what Mr. Trump meant by his request or his additional comment to Mr. McAleenan that he would pardon him if he encountered any legal problems as a result of taking the action. Federal judges have already blocked the administration’s attempts to limit asylum seekers who illegally enter the country, and it is not likely that Mr. McAleenan would have ended up in jail if he had followed the president’s directive.One of the people briefed on the conversation said it was possible Mr. Trump had intended the comments to Mr. McAleenan as a joke. But the conversation, which took place during the president’s visit to the border town of Calexico, Calif., alarmed officials at the Department of Homeland Security who were told of it, according to the people familiar with the remarks.It was another instance of the president trying to undo a decision and to stretch the boundaries of his power, even when told there were legal issues at stake. The same situation played out on Friday, when Mr. Trump said he was considering releasing asylum seekers into so-called sanctuary cities after administration officials told reporters the proposal was rejected because of legal issues.The day before his conversation with Mr. McAleenan, Mr. Trump had retreated from his threat to close the border in a matter of days. Instead, he told reporters, he was issuing a “one-year warning” to Mexico to halt illegal immigration and drug trafficking. Privately, however, he was still pushing his aides to halt the flow of asylum seekers across the Mexican border.Besides Mr. McAleenan, who was then the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Mr. Trump was accompanied on the trip by Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security at the time.Ms. Nielsen had earlier refused to carry through with Mr. Trump’s desire to close the border, telling him it was illegal. But the president encouraged Mr. McAleenan to disregard Ms. Nielsen and enforce the move himself. Two days later, Ms. Nielsen submitted her resignation under pressure from Mr. Trump, and the president appointed Mr. McAleenan to her job on an acting basis.A White House spokesman declined to respond to requests for comment on the conversation between the president and Mr. McAleenan. Tyler Q. Houlton, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, did not specifically address it.“At no time has the president indicated, asked, directed or pressured the acting secretary to do anything illegal,” Mr. Houlton said. “Nor would the acting secretary take actions that are not in accordance with our responsibility to enforce the law.”Mr. Trump’s desire to close the border, despite the legal impediments, was a factor in the forced resignation of Ms. Nielsen. It was one of a number of instances in which Ms. Nielsen believed she was being asked to engage in conduct that violated laws, according to several people with knowledge of those discussions.The president’s conversation with Mr. McAleenan came at a time when Mr. Trump was considering him as a successor to Ms. Nielsen, whom he was planning to remove from her job, according to officials familiar with his timing. It also came as the factions in the West Wing seeking to oversee immigration policy had been fighting for dominance, creating confusion for the department about whom to deal with or respond to.The discussion with Mr. McAleenan was one of the most acute examples of Mr. Trump’s desire to use any means to stem the tide of immigrants into the United States, and a reminder of what he would like to see as the unilateral powers of the presidency.Mr. Trump has been growing increasingly agitated about images of the border he has seen on television, and distressed by the number of immigrants entering the country from the border with Mexico. More undocumented immigrants were apprehended along the southern border in March than in any month since 2007, Customs and Border Protection reported this week.In response, the president has ramped up his messaging against not just illegal immigration but also legal immigration, mocking asylum seekers as fakes who are pretending to face difficult conditions to ease their passage across the border.While Mr. Trump has not publicly revisited closing the border, he has repeatedly excoriated Democrats over immigration policy and suggested that he will take more aggressive steps at the border.“I’m going to have to call up more military,” Mr. Trump told reporters during a visit to San Antonio this week. “Our military, don’t forget, can’t act like they would normally act because if they got a little rough, everybody would go crazy.”Mr. Trump’s insistence that he was still considering placing undocumented immigrants in sanctuary cities “due to the fact that Democrats are unwilling to change our very dangerous immigration laws” came in a tweet on Friday morning. That statement directly contradicted his own aides, who on Thursday had described the proposal as a “suggestion that was floated and rejected, which ended any further discussion.”But Mr. Trump was eager to continue the discussion. If Democrats did not agree to new immigration policies, Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House on Friday, “we might as well do what they always say they want.”“We’ll bring them to sanctuary city areas and let that particular area take care of it,” Mr. Trump continued, adding that California welcomed the idea of more people coming to the state.“We can give them a lot. We can give them an unlimited supply,” he said.After Mr. Trump’s comments, a White House spokesman indicated that the proposal was now back on the table, and that Democrats should work with the administration to welcome migrants into their districts.“Democrats say we must have open borders and that illegal immigrants have a right to be in this country at all costs,” the spokesman, Hogan Gidley said, “so they should be working with the administration to find the best ways to transport those illegal aliens that are already set for release, into communities in their districts and states.”Democratic lawmakers, however, are not advocating “open borders,” as the president has suggested. They favor enhancing border security, but do not support many of Mr. Trump’s hard-line immigration policy proposals, such as building a wall along the southern border.Last year, Trump administration officials had floated the idea of transporting migrants to sanctuary cities, which limit how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration officers, as a way to address the influx of migrants crossing the border.One of the highest-profile sanctuary cities is San Francisco, home to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, one of the most effective opponents of the president’s efforts to change American immigration laws. The White House raised the proposal again in February, seeing it as a way to punish Democrats for their opposition.Ms. Pelosi’s office condemned the plan.“The extent of this administration’s cynicism and cruelty cannot be overstated,” said Ashley Etienne, a spokeswoman for Ms. Pelosi. “Using human beings — including little children — as pawns in their warped game to perpetuate fear and demonize immigrants is despicable, and in some cases, criminal.”Zolan Kanno-Youngs, Michael D. Shear and Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriPresident Trump came away empty-handed for now after the longest federal government shutdown in American history failed to pressure Congress into funding his long-promised border wall, purportedly to stop an inflow of drugs and crime from Mexico.But he is not done making his case on immigration.On Sunday he rattled off several figures on Twitter about how many undocumented immigrants there are in the United States, how much they cost the country financially and how many had illegally voted in Texas.There were already many problems with Mr. Trump’s assertion that undocumented immigrants disproportionately bring with them more drugs and crime. And several experts said they had concerns with the figures he disseminated on Sunday.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.In one tweet on Sunday, Mr. Trump said that “58,000 non-citizens voted in Texas, with 95,000 non-citizens registered to vote.” He was citing an investigation that Texas officials had publicized days earlier but that Democrats in the state immediately questioned.The investigation, by the Texas secretary of state’s office, said that 95,000 people who were registered to vote in the state had at some point told a law enforcement agency that they were not citizens. Out of that number, 58,000 had voted at some point since 1996.Politicians and voters’ advocates are asking officials to investigate both figures.“Because we have consistently seen Texas politicians conjure the specter of voter fraud as pretext to suppress legitimate votes, we are naturally skeptical,” Representative Rafael Anchia, a Democrat in the state House, told The New York Times.Even if the numbers are deemed accurate, those 58,000 voters could have become citizens before casting ballots. More than 50,000 people were naturalized in Texas in 2017, according to the Department of Homeland Security.“We have a reason to distrust these numbers,” said Andre Segura, the legal director for the A.C.L.U. of Texas. “There’s a long history of these numbers being inaccurate. Voter fraud is extremely rare.”In Florida, the administration of the former governor, Rick Scott, had tried to purge noncitizens from voter rolls in 2012. It started with a list of 180,000 voters based on driver’s license data, according to The Tampa Bay Times. Ultimately, 85 people were removed from the rolls, according to the newspaper.In another tweet, Mr. Trump said that “the cost of illegal immigration so far this year is $18,959,495,168. Cost Friday was $603,331,392.”It is not clear where Mr. Trump arrived at those figures. They track with a tweet from last month in which he declared that the country loses “250 Billion Dollars a year on illegal immigration.”But several experts said those figures were far too high.There is little research on how much undocumented immigrants cost the United States. The highest costs would generally be related to education and health care, but many undocumented immigrants pay taxes and are typically barred from receiving many of the costliest benefits, like Medicaid.No study seems to comprehensively address a net cost, instead focusing on either the costs or the benefits.“They tend to talk past each other, unfortunately,” said Randy Capps, the director of research for American programs at the Migration Policy Institute.The National Academy of Sciences concluded in 2016 that immigration, both legal and illegal, benefited the economy. It said that the average immigrant cost state and local governments about $1,600 a year from 2011 to 2013, but that their children and grandchildren paid far more in taxes than they consumed in public services.Alex Nowrasteh, a senior immigration policy analyst at the Cato Institute, said the highest figure he had seen came from the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors restricting immigration. It has said undocumented immigrants cost the country at least $116 billion per year.The Cato Institute disputes that figure, which Mr. Nowrasteh said did not take into account the economic benefits of undocumented immigrants. He and others have questioned the group’s methodology.“There’s no basis to any of those numbers about the fiscal cost,” he said. “The president’s numbers are even twice as bad.”Mr. Trump also claimed that in the United States there are “at least 25,772,342 illegal aliens, not the 11,000,000 that have been reported for years.”Again, several experts said Mr. Trump’s numbers were too high.It appears that Mr. Trump is making his claim based on a study conducted by researchers affiliated with Yale University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which estimated the number at 22 million.Starting with an estimate in 1990, the researchers modeled how the population would change in future years based on immigration rates, demographic change and deportations, among other factors, eventually arriving at the 22 million estimate.The conclusions of that study, published in the journal PLOS One in September, have been challenged, with some questioning whether it underestimated the number of immigrants who had left the country.The researchers have also acknowledged that their results diverge from existing estimates. Most other studies say the number is around 11 million or 12 million. The Pew Research Center estimated that it was about 10.7 million in 2016. In 2015, the Department of Homeland Security estimated the number to be 12 million.“There’s been no evidence of a new, rapid increase of the population,” Mr. Capps said.William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, said the methodology used by Pew had been vetted over decades.“They have a general sense that what they are doing is reasonably O.K.,” he said of the Pew researchers. “I trust them. They have been doing this for a long time.”Manny Fernandez contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhy immigration rhetoric that worked in 2016 doesn’t work today.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistThe people who didn’t want television networks to cede a prime-time hour last night — or, as it turned out, a prime-time 10 minutes — to the president of the United States were implicitly giving Donald Trump a credit that he does not deserve. There is a kind of silver-tongued orator who can persuade in any situation, who like Caesar’s Mark Antony can find a crowd leaning one way and leave them stirred up for the opposite cause, who is legitimately dangerous when given a rostrum or a soapbox or a prime-time speech. But that is not our president: His rhetoric is a bludgeon, and what we saw last night was just an attempt to club his enemies and critics with the same arguments he’s made a thousand times before.In fairness to Trump, the immigration bludgeon was effective once — for two reasons that played out in surprising ways across the 2016 campaign. First, Trump-the-candidate’s dire warnings about criminals and terrorists crossing the southern border dovetailed with two 2016-specific trends — the spike in violent crime after decades of decline, and the rash of Islamic State-inspired attacks on both sides of the Atlantic.Second, the extremity of his rhetoric persuaded skeptics of mass immigration, long burned by politicians of both parties, that Trump would not betray them. In a political landscape where every year seemed to bring a new bipartisan push for amnesties and immigration increases, his xenophobic style was an effective political marker for anyone with inchoate anxieties about immigration. You didn’t have to literally believe that he would build the Wall and make Mexico pay for it to regard that wild promise as evidence that he would be more genuinely restrictionist and hawkish on the issue than politicians merely paying lip service to “border security.”[Want to join the debate? Follow us on Instagram at @nytopinion.]But the problem for Trump is that presidents have to deal with changing circumstances and cope with unexpected crises, not just fulminate in the same style regardless of the context. And the world of 2019 looks different than the world in which he campaigned. The crime rate didn’t keep rising, the pace of terror attacks hasn’t quickened, and fate has given him an immigration crisis that’s substantially different than the crisis of murderers and terror plotters that he invoked in his campaign rhetoric — a humanitarian crisis, a crisis of families and children, in which the problem isn’t the people that we can’t catch crossing the borders but the people who surrender willingly, hoping to exploit our overstrained asylum system and disappear with their kids into the American interior.A more supple strategist and orator than our president might have been able to adapt his tough-guy proposals to this complicated new reality, and in the process to exploit the Democrats’ core vulnerability — their difficulty figuring out exactly what kind of deportation policies, if any, their base will allow them to support.Such an adaptation would have involved making two arguments in parallel. First, Trump could have argued that 15 years of increased spending on border security — walls and fencing and other barriers very much included — has played a big role in reducing the old kind of illegal immigration, in which single young men cross the border looking for work. My proposed wall, really an expansion of steel fencing, would build on this success, he could have said, and build on policies that Democrats once voted for, in order to make sure the old rates of illegal immigration don’t come back.Then, second, he could have explained the new challenge of family migration, admitted to mistakes (I know, imagine that) in the child separation policy of 2018, and emphasized that he’s asking for more money and various legal and administrative changes to ensure that inhumane conditions can be improved, that families can be kept together, that the system can adjudicate, process and deport without last year’s performative cruelty. He could have even talked about the attempts at deal making with Mexico, the attempt at a bilateral arrangement that our southern neighbor would keep migrants on its territory while they applied for asylum on ours.If you parsed last night’s 10 minutes of presidential words carefully enough you could find fragments of these arguments — but only fragments, shored around an argumentative edifice that was just the same old 2016-vintage Trumpian warnings about how (to quote Vox’s Dara Lind) “immigrants are coming across the border to kill you.”And this “IACATBTKY” argument just doesn’t match up with the news that most Americans consume. There is no rising immigrant crime wave at the moment, no wave of terror attacks by border jumpers, the immigrant caravan didn’t end in bloodshed, and the dominant images from the current border crisis are pictures of exhausted parents and frightened, uncomprehending kids.So what we heard from the president was a play to people deep in the Trumpian bubble, a pledge to his electoral rump that he’s still fighting the fights he promised two years ago even if the facts on the ground require a somewhat different strategy. Where the rest of the country was concerned, including many voters a more effective president would be trying to win over or win back, it was almost certainly just a waste of breath. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Eileen Sullivan, Zolan Kanno-Youngs and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — President Trump said on Friday that he withdrew his nominee to run Immigration and Customs Enforcement because he wanted the agency to go in a “tougher” direction, a surprise decision before the president’s trip to the southwestern border.Ronald D. Vitiello, who was nominated last summer by Mr. Trump to run ICE, the agency that arrests, detains and deports people who are in the United States illegally, has been serving as the agency’s acting director since last June. He had planned to accompany the president on his trip to California, but was left behind.“Ron’s a good man, but we’re going in a tougher direction,” Mr. Trump said to reporters as he left the White House en route to Calexico, Calif.Mr. Vitiello’s nomination had been awaiting approval by a second Senate committee and confirmation by the full chamber. In an email to ICE employees on Friday afternoon, he signaled that he planned to remain at the immigration agency. No replacement has yet been named.“While I will not become the permanent director of ICE, I look forward to working alongside you in serving the American public with integrity, courage and excellence,” Mr. Vitiello said in the email, which was read to The New York Times by an ICE employee on the condition of anonymity.One person familiar with the president’s thinking said that Mr. Trump believed that Mr. Vitiello did not favor closing the border, as the president had proposed before backing off that threat this week.Another person said that Stephen Miller, the president’s chief policy adviser and a supporter of curtailing legal and illegal immigration, did not support Mr. Vitiello’s nomination. The two people familiar with the president’s thinking both spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the internal White House decisions.The president’s abrupt decision came at a time when his administration considers the United States border with Mexico to be in crisis because of the flow of people trying to get into the country, making it a priority to have a confirmed appointee leading the agency to carry out the administration’s policies. But some senators, including Republicans, had concerns that Mr. Vitiello was not the right person for this job.Mr. Trump, who has continued to push for stronger deportation rules, had also expressed concern about whether a career civil servant, like Mr. Vitiello, would be up to the task. ICE has been led by acting directors since January 2017.Mr. Vitiello had recently been more outspoken about overflowing immigration facilities and strapped resources at the border. But that did little to assuage the National ICE Council, a union representing agency employees, which in February told the Senate it opposed Mr. Vitiello’s nomination over what was described as his controversial posts on social media and his treatment of some ICE agents.The request to withdraw Mr. Vitiello’s nomination surprised officials on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. Even some Department of Homeland Security officials questioned whether it was sent in error.Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — President Trump, facing a growing public backlash over the partial government shutdown, shifted course on Saturday and offered Democrats a deal: temporary protections for roughly 700,000 young undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a wall along the southern border.But the proposal, which Mr. Trump unveiled in a 13-minute address from the White House, appeared dead on arrival in the Capitol. Speaker Nancy Pelosi rejected it even before Mr. Trump spoke, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, denounced the offer as “not a compromise but more hostage taking.”With the shutdown entering its fifth week and polls showing a majority of the public blaming Mr. Trump, the president’s advisers have been searching for an exit strategy. Saturday’s speech grew out of talks that Vice President Mike Pence and the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, have had in recent days with lawmakers including Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader.The proposal was Mr. Trump’s first public offer to Democrats since the partial shutdown began nearly a month ago. It came after an acrimonious week of tit-for-tat politics, in which Ms. Pelosi told the president he could not deliver his State of the Union address in the Capitol until the shutdown was over, and the president retaliated by grounding a plane that was supposed to take Ms. Pelosi on a fact-finding mission to Afghanistan.In casting the plan as a compromise, the president sought to shift pressure to Democrats — who have repeatedly refused to give Mr. Trump any money for his border wall — to end the shutdown. But Democrats continued to insist they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump over border security until the government reopens.Over the course of his administration, Mr. Trump has repeatedly sought to curb both legal and illegal immigration. He has revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., which offers crucial protections for immigrants, for people from some Latin American and African countries. And he has moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, an Obama-era program that shielded the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation.In the deal he outlined on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore T.P.S. protection for 300,000 people, and said he would allow 700,000 Dreamers to keep their protections for three more years in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border barrier.“That is our plan,” Mr. Trump said. “Border security, DACA, T.P.S. Many other things. Straightforward, fair, reasonable and common sense with lots of compromise.” The proposal, Mr. Trump added, was intended to “break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward.”The speech was the second time during the shutdown that the president addressed the nation about the immigration crisis. But unlike his first address, a prime-time broadcast from the Oval Office that leaned heavily on dark messaging about the dangers of crime and illegal drugs flowing across the border, Mr. Trump seemed on Saturday to soften his tone.He paired the address with his first naturalization ceremony at the White House, a move intended to underscore the idea that he supports legal immigration. And his language was markedly different; instead of insisting on the “big beautiful wall” he promised during his 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump took care to use the word “barrier” as well — and seemed to pare back his vision for it.Calling the wall “a powerful and beautifully designed see-through steel barrier on our southern border,” Mr. Trump said: “This is not a 2,000-mile concrete structure from sea to sea. These are steel barriers in high priority locations. Much of the border is already protected by natural barriers such as mountains and water.”Mr. Trump noted that he had adopted some Democratic proposals on border security. The president proposed $800 million for humanitarian assistance and $805 million for drug detection technology, in addition to funding for 2,750 more border agents and law enforcement officials and 75 new immigration judge teams.In her talking points, issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosi said her party favored “new drug, weapons and contraband scanning technology at official ports of entry,” and “filling the more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers.” Ms. Pelosi also intends to bring up legislation in the coming days that includes an additional $1 billion for border security, including $563 million for 75 new immigration judges and support staff.Even so, Democrats roundly criticized the president’s plan. They were particularly incensed that Mr. Trump’s offer extended protections to Dreamers and T.P.S. recipients that he himself revoked. And they said the deal was a nonstarter because it did not offer any permanent protections for Dreamers.“I think it’s simply more fake promises raising false hopes,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said. “It will fool few Americans because it’s neither serious nor credible as a real remedy for Dreamers.”Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.Some on the right also pushed back, describing the proposal as amnesty. James Carafano, a national security expert at the Heritage Foundation who worked on Mr. Trump’s transition, was among the critics. “Amnesty encourages further illegal immigration, incentivizes the tragedy of human trafficking and undermines our citizens’ confidence in the rule of law,” he said.Mr. Pence, briefing reporters after Mr. Trump’s remarks, said the speech reflected a painstaking process of listening to lawmakers, including rank-and-file Democrats who made it clear they believed that protections for DACA and T.P.S. recipients must be included in a border security deal.And he pushed back forcefully against critics like Mr. Carafano who said the measure amounted to an unacceptable amnesty for undocumented immigrants.“There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal,” Mr. Pence said.But that was one reason many Democrats considered it unacceptable. Other senior administration officials made it clear that part of Mr. Trump’s strategy was to try to drive a wedge within the party between those who want to hold out for a much more generous solution and those who may feel enough political pressure to end the shutdown that they will feel obliged to support it.Noting that Tuesday is the deadline for the government to reopen in time to prevent federal employees from going a second consecutive pay period without a check, Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, said Senate Democrats had a tricky decision to make. He also noted that the president’s ability to declare a national emergency was “absolutely” still a tool available to Mr. Trump to find funds to build the wall if a legislative agreement could not be reached.Now it will be up to Mr. McConnell to put legislation incorporating Mr. Trump’s proposal on the Senate floor.Mr. McConnell — who has insisted he will not put any legislation on the floor unless the president will sign it — spoke to Mr. Trump, Mr. Kushner and Mr. Pence on Thursday night about finding a way forward.Mr. McConnell told the president that before he could bring up legislation on the Senate floor, he needed a “public reassurance” that Mr. Trump would sign it, one person close to the talks said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to describe sensitive discussions.The president’s proposal “strikes a fair compromise by incorporating priorities from both sides of the aisle,” Mr. McConnell said in a statement after Mr. Trump’s speech.If Mr. McConnell does indeed put a bill on the floor, as the president said he would, Senate Democrats will have to decide whether to block it or let it come up for a vote. Despite Democrats’ vow to reject the measure, it could create an opening for negotiations between the two sides.The shutdown stalemate is creating increasing nervousness on Capitol Hill, especially among Republicans seeking re-election in Democratic-leaning states. One of them, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, is among only a handful of Republicans who have broken with the president and called for the government to reopen without a border security deal.On Saturday, she praised the president, saying she hoped that Mr. Trump’s offer would “lead to constructive debate that will end this impasse.”White House aides and allies of Mr. Trump said Saturday that Mr. Trump succeeded in ratcheting up the political pressure on Ms. Pelosi, especially if the Senate succeeded in passing a bill.“The Democrats’ talking points have been that the president is solely responsible for shutting down the government,” Marc Short, the former White House legislative director, said. “This puts more onus on them to come back and say why this proposal is insufficient.”But one reason Democrats are so leery of the deal is that they have been down this road with the president before. Last year, Mr. Trump and Mr. Schumer negotiated $25 billion in wall money for a pathway to citizenship for the Dreamers. But that deal fell apart when hard-line White House advisers persuaded the president to back away.The standoff over the shutdown, some former aides noted, was the first time Mr. Trump has had to engage in meaningful, high-stakes negotiations. But even that has come as a last resort, in what some have likened to negotiating out of desperation after failing to score political points.Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — President Trump attacked Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Sunday for rejecting his proposal to end the partial government shutdown, as he and Republican leaders in Congress sought to put Democrats on defense, a place they have rarely been during the shutdown stalemate.In a series of morning tweets, Mr. Trump said Ms. Pelosi had behaved “so irrationally” in spurning his offer to restore the temporary protections he took away from some undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border wall. He also pushed back against conservative critics who called the plan amnesty for immigrants who came to the United States illegally.Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, plans to bring up legislation as early as Tuesday that would wrap Mr. Trump’s proposal into a broader package that would include billions of dollars in disaster relief and immediately reopen the government, an aide said. The move is intended to ratchet up pressure on Democrats, who have insisted they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump until the shutdown is over.“President Trump has put forward a serious and reasonable offer to reform parts of our broken immigration system and reopen government,” Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republican leader, said on Twitter. “The moment now turns to Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer. The country is watching.”But there was little indication from Democrats, who have denounced Mr. Trump’s plan as “hostage taking,” that they would abandon that position.“If he opens up the government, we’ll discuss whatever he offers, but hostage taking should not work,” Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, told reporters in New York on Sunday, adding, “It’s very hard to negotiate when a gun is held to your head.”With the shutdown now in its fifth week, and 800,000 federal employees still furloughed or working without pay, pressure is rising on both Republicans and Democrats to end it. If it lasts until Friday, Congress will be forced to reckon with another grim milestone: Affected workers will miss their second paycheck.[Read: Trump’s Deal Meets With Skepticism Among Immigrants in Texas]As Republicans go on offense in the Senate, Democrats will stay on offense in the House, where they have already passed a string of government funding bills that Mr. McConnell — who has largely remained on the sidelines during the shutdown debate — has refused to take up. On Wednesday, Ms. Pelosi plans to bring up a package of six bills to fund shuttered government agencies, ignoring Mr. Trump’s requests.The measures gained approval last year from Republicans on the House and Senate Appropriations Committees; in effect, Ms. Pelosi will be daring Republicans to vote against their own legislation. Democrats will also begin talking more about their own vision for border security — a shift in strategy for a party that has focused mostly on the economic and personal toll of the shutdown.Amid the posturing, however, there were some hints that Mr. Trump’s proposal, which he unveiled in a 13-minute White House address on Saturday, might open the door to talks that could result in a deal. Vice President Mike Pence, in an appearance on “Fox News Sunday,” suggested that Mr. Trump’s proposal might be amended on the Senate floor.“Well, of course,” Mr. Pence said, when the host, Chris Wallace, asked if he was open to negotiation. “The legislative process is a negotiation.”And Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, a centrist Democrat, described Mr. Trump’s plan as “a starting point” on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” though he added, “You’ve got to start by reopening the government.”The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected.Polls show the public largely blames Mr. Trump for the shutdown, and his advisers have been searching for an exit strategy. Last week, Mr. McConnell told Mr. Trump, Mr. Pence and White House advisers that he needed the president to put forth a public offer so he could bring legislation to the floor.“McConnell’s view of shutdowns is when you’re in one, it’s a great opportunity for both sides to get things,” said Scott Jennings, a Republican strategist and former McConnell aide who remains close to him. “And what I think is dumbfounding everyone here is: Why aren’t the Democrats treating it as a situation where they could get something? The president has opened the door for them to get something, so let’s talk.”Throughout his administration, Mr. Trump has sought to limit both legal and illegal immigration. Last year, he moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, which shielded from deportation hundreds of thousands of young unauthorized immigrants known as Dreamers. He also revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., for some undocumented immigrants from Latin American and African countries.In the plan he unveiled on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore the DACA and T.P.S. protections for three years. But Democrats say that is a nonstarter, because it does not offer a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers, and because Mr. Trump is simply giving back protections that he himself took away.The McConnell aide, Don Stewart, said the Republican legislative package would include seven appropriations bills that would fund government agencies that have been partially closed for a month.“The legislation that the majority leader will bring to the floor this week would both reopen the remaining portions of the government, fund disaster relief, fund border security and address immigration issues that both Republicans and Democrats would like to address — all in one bill,” Mr. Stewart said.Mr. McConnell would need votes from all Republicans and seven Democrats for the package to pass. But only a handful of Democrats in Republican-leaning states might feel pressured enough to cross the aisle. A spokesman for one of them, Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, said Mr. Manchin — who just won re-election — would remain undecided on the Republican proposal until he saw it.In broadening the package beyond Mr. Trump’s plan, Mr. McConnell may be trying to pick up additional Democrats — especially those who are eager to vote for disaster relief.“He’s starting to move the pieces around to see what’s going to fly and what’s not going to make it,” said Jim Manley, who was a top aide to Harry Reid, the former Democratic leader from Nevada. “He’s trying to put the pressure back on Democrats, and he’s trying to see what the possibilities of a deal are by putting a larger package there. He’s trying to see how large the package has to be to bring Democrats on board.”But Mr. Trump seemed to be holding fast. He retweeted a series of endorsements of his proposal from Republican lawmakers on Sunday evening, and earlier in the day, he took aim at Ms. Pelosi and pushed back against conservative critics who have described the plan as amnesty for undocumented immigrants.“Nancy Pelosi and some of the Democrats turned down my offer yesterday before I even got up to speak,” Mr. Trump wrote. “They don’t see crime & drugs, they only see 2020 — which they are not going to win. Best economy! They should do the right thing for the Country & allow people to go back to work.”Mr. Trump went on: “Nancy Pelosi has behaved so irrationally & has gone so far to the left that she has now officially become a Radical Democrat. She is so petrified of the ‘lefties’ in her party that she has lost control...And by the way, clean up the streets in San Francisco, they are disgusting!”And to his conservative critics, Mr. Trump wrote: “No, Amnesty is not a part of my offer. It is a 3 year extension of DACA. Amnesty will be used only on a much bigger deal, whether on immigration or something else. Likewise there will be no big push to remove the 11,000,000 plus people who are here illegally — but be careful Nancy!”Ms. Pelosi took to Twitter to strike back. “@realdonaldtrump, 800,000 Americans are going without pay. Re-open the government, let workers get their paychecks and then we can discuss how we can come together to protect the border,” she wrote, using the hashtag #EndTheShutdown.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Katie BennerWASHINGTON — William P. Barr, President Trump’s nominee for attorney general, promised on Monday that he would allow the special counsel to continue his investigation, seeking to allay Democrats’ fears that he might shut down the inquiry.“It is in the best interest of everyone — the president, Congress, and, most importantly, the American people — that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work,” Mr. Barr said in written testimony that he plans to deliver on Tuesday at the start of his two-day confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee.“The country needs a credible resolution of these issues,” he added. “If confirmed, I will not permit partisan politics, personal interests, or any other improper consideration to interfere with this or any other investigation.”But Mr. Barr’s written statement also included a subtle caveat, limiting his assurances about the investigation to issues under his control: “I can assure you that, where judgments are to be made by me, I will make those judgments based solely on the law and will let no personal, political, or other improper interests influence my decision,” he wrote.That qualification could be important because Mr. Barr has long advanced a philosophy of strong executive powers under which almost any executive branch decision is ultimately the president’s to make and the president is the nation’s top law-enforcement official, not the attorney general.After Mr. Barr was nominated last month, an unsolicited memo emerged that he had sent to Justice Department officials and the president’s lawyers last year criticizing a focus of the inquiry: whether the president obstructed justice by firing James B. Comey as F.B.I. director in a possible effort to impede the inquiry itself.“Obviously, the president and any other official can commit obstruction in this classic sense of sabotaging a proceeding’s truth-finding function,” Mr. Barr wrote, noting that the president is not exempt from the law.The memo prompted concerns among congressional Democrats that Mr. Barr might stop the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, if Mr. Trump ordered him to do so. The Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer, and Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the leading Democrat on the Intelligence Committee, have called on Mr. Trump in recent days to rescind Mr. Barr’s nomination, saying that his memo disqualifies him to lead the department.In his planned remarks, Mr. Barr said that his memo addressed only the single obstruction-of-justice issue and that he did not argue that a president can never obstruct justice.“The memo did not address — or in any way question — the special counsel’s core investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election,” Mr. Barr planned to say. “I wrote it myself, on my own initiative, without assistance, and based solely on public information.”In his prepared testimony, Mr. Barr also said he would follow the rules governing Mr. Mueller’s appointment and work to allow him to finish the investigation into Russia’s 2016 election interference and whether any Trump associates conspired with it.“I will follow the special counsel regulations scrupulously and in good faith, and on my watch, Bob will be allowed to complete his work,” Mr. Barr planned to say, according to the prepared remarks.Nonetheless, senators still plan to press Mr. Barr about the memo. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the leading Democrat on the Judiciary committee, said in a letter to Mr. Barr that she plans to ask him why he wrote the memo, who he conferred with in writing it, and exactly who he shared it with.Mr. Barr also said that he would provide as much information to the public as the law allowed about the results of the inquiry.Noting that they worked together at the Justice Department under President George Bush, Mr. Barr planned to say that he has known and respected Mr. Mueller as a colleague and friend for 30 years and that he had confidence that Mr. Mueller would handle the special counsel inquiry properly.Mr. Barr said in his prepared testimony that he reluctantly accepted the nomination out of a sense of civic duty, and that Mr. Trump “has sought no assurances, promises, or commitments from me of any kind, either express or implied.”In a letter of support for Mr. Barr’s nomination, former Justice Department officials including former Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey and James M. Cole, an Obama administration deputy attorney general, wrote that Mr. Barr, who was attorney general under Mr. Bush, served without “regard to favor or politics.”Mr. Barr will lay out his other priorities at the hearing including clamping down on illegal immigration and ensuring the integrity of elections, according to his prepared remarks. “The attorney general must ensure that the administration of justice — the enforcement of the law — is above and away from politics,” Mr. Barr planned to say.Charlie Savage contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]He’s running!Julián Castro, the former housing secretary and former mayor of San Antonio, Tex., said on Saturday that he will run for president. The first major Latino candidate to make a 2020 bid, Mr. Castro, 44, advocated for a fairly progressive platform in his announcement speech.Here at On Politics, we’re trying to talk to all the 2020 candidates as they enter the race, and Mr. Castro agreed to be our first subject. We spoke late Sunday afternoon, shortly after he landed in San Juan, Puerto Rico, where he planed to speak to a group of political activists and tour a hurricane recovery zone. (As usual, our conversation has been condensed for clarity.)Lisa: Hi. Thanks for chatting with us. As you well know, you’re one of the first of what’s likely to be quite a number of Democrats running for president. How can you distinguish yourself?Castro: I have a track record of getting things done as mayor of San Antonio and as secretary of housing. I have a strong vision for the country’s future. And I’ve lived a life that I believe lets me understand people all along the scale of experience in our country. I had a modest upbringing and I can understand people that are striving to reach their dreams. I’ve also reached my dreams and can understand folks who have had a lot of success.You’re in Puerto Rico right now. That’s pretty far from Iowa. Why start your campaign there?I want everybody to understand that everybody counts in this country. The most basic tenet of government is protection. And this administration failed our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico by not protecting them after Hurricane Maria. I’m going to highlight that, and then we’ll let folks know that in the years to come everybody is going to count in this country, including the people of Puerto Rico.President Trump has said there’s a massive crisis on the border. Do you agree?Not at all. The crisis that exists is a crisis of leadership. This president has failed. He promised all of us that if Americans could just be cruel enough to separate babies from their parents at the border, that it would deter more families from coming over there. Now we’ve seen that more families are coming over. So he has failed with his policies, and he’s failed in trying to convince the American people that he’s not to blame for this shutdown. And the best thing that he can do now is to set aside his political ploy of the wall.You may be the only Latino in a crowded race. How do you think that will impact the contest?I’ve got to be myself, and I’m confident that I can appeal to a broad cross-section of Americans. At the same time, of course, there’s significance to the Latino community because I believe a lot of Latinos feel targeted right now by this administration. For me, personally, I can relate to many of today’s immigrants because my grandmother that I grew up with came over from Mexico, and I grew up in San Antonio, just a few hours away from the border. So I’ve seen the positive value that immigrants add to this country in a very direct way. And I know that these cities along the border are some of the safest cities in the United States.Any Democrats who runs will have to answer the question of how to challenge Mr. Trump. What’s your philosophy?The way I see it is that, above all else, people want to know what you stand for. I’m going to give people a strong positive vision for our country’s future. Of course, I’m going to point out where I differ with the president. But my first priority is to let you know, if you elect me, what I’m going to do for you or for your family.Do you think a Democrat will end up running against Mr. Trump? Like, do you think he’ll still be in office next year? That’s probably the best question out there now. You know, it’s hard to tell what’s going to happen. My hope is that these investigations will proceed thoroughly and Congress will act once the investigation is finished appropriately. So right now, I’m prepared to face President Trump in November of 2020. If there’s somebody else who’s up for the Republicans, then I’ll face them.Mr. Trump is known for giving nicknames to his opponents. What do you think yours will be? Who knows and who cares. You know, the thing about magic tricks is that even magic tricks get old. And his tricks are getting old.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________Talks between the White House and congressional Democrats to end the longest government shutdown in history remained stalled on Monday. That’s more bad news for government employees, who don’t know when they’ll get their next paycheck.Last week we spoke to Júlia Quintanilla, a contract janitor at the Department of Agriculture, who was worried about buying groceries. Today, we’re bringing you the story of T.S.A. agents Daniel and Jennifer Young. The couple met on the job at Huntsville Municipal Airport in Alabama, where they’ve both worked for over a decade. They stagger their shifts, with Ms. Young leaving the house around 3:30 a.m., so they can care for their 5-year-old twin daughters.Deemed essential for national security, T.S.A. agents are required to work during the shutdown. But they’re not getting paid. Many live paycheck to paycheck, making an average salary of $35,000, according to officials at the American Federation of Government Employees.High numbers are calling in sick and resigning, a situation that’s forced airports in Miami, Houston and Washington to close some screening lines. And on Sunday night, the T.S.A. confirmed that a passenger with a gun passed through a checkpoint in the Atlanta airport and flew to Tokyo. The agency denied any connection with the shutdown, but the incident sparked speculation.To ease some of the stress, David P. Pekoske, the T.S.A. administrator, announced that employees would receive a day’s pay if they worked Dec. 22 and that uniformed officers will get a $500 bonus on Tuesday.So far, the Youngs have been able to stretch their finances to cover their expenses. But if the shutdown continues into next month, the couple said they will have to make some “really hard choices” about which bills to pay.“We had a screw in our tire, and I had to go and figure out how we’re going to pay for it to get fixed,” said Mr. Young, 36, a Marine Corps veteran. “That increases your stress level. You can’t stop life when you’re not getting paid. You still have to go to work.”“I can’t pay my electric bill with an i.o.u. I can’t pay my mortgage with an i.o.u.,” Mr. Young added. “All my decisions are based on the fact that I have no idea when I’m going to get paid or how I’m paying for this. I will be pretty much living off credit cards in February.”“Kids sense a lot,” said Ms. Young, 34, “but I feel like they don’t need to know. It’s my job to take care of them. It’s my job to provide for them. Even if I have to make tough choices. At least there’s food in their bellies.”Have you been personally affected by the shutdown? Tell us about it: OnPolitics@nytimes.com. Our inbox is always open!____________________• More than 30,000 Los Angeles public-school teachers began a long-planned strike on Monday, the first in three decades in the nation’s second-largest school district. Times reporters are following the story live here.• “Portraits of these women of the 116th Congress are a testament to what power looks like in 2019 — and the possibilities of what it may look like in the years to come.” A pretty fascinating photo spread on the women of the new Congress.• Give up on “inbox zero.” In 2019, embrace inbox infinity. (Sorry if I don’t reply to your message.)____________________The most controversial 2020 platform? Embracing carbs.Also, you know what will crush all these diets? Iowa. (In 2012, I tried fried butter drizzled with some kind of icing at the Iowa state fair. That was a real product being sold. And, dear reader, it wasn’t half bad.)_____________________Megaphone illustration by Tim Lahan.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFact CheckPresident Trump revived an old and still unproved rumor that hints that Islamic migrants were entering the United States through Mexico and could pose a terrorism threat.By Linda QiuBorder rancher: “We’ve found prayer rugs out here. It’s unreal.”  Washington Examiner   People coming across the Southern Border from many countries, some of which would be a big surprise.Starting as early as 2005, politicians have claimed to have discovered discarded prayer rugs — and perhaps even Qurans or “a lot of stuff written in Arabic” — at the southern border, hinting without evidence that Islamic migrants were entering the United States through Mexico and could pose a terrorism threat. Mr. Trump’s tweet revived this long-running and still unproved rumor. He was citing an interview in The Washington Examiner, a conservative newspaper, with one anonymous female rancher who lives on the border.“I’ve never seen any Middle Easterners — I’ve seen prayer rugs out here — but I’ve never seen any myself,” the woman, whose face is obscured, said in a videotaped interview.Asma Afsaruddin, a professor of Islamic studies at Indiana University, said that prayer rugs were meant to be kept clean and doubted that they would be deserted by practicing Muslims.“Standing in a clean place is a requirement of Islamic prayer,” she said. “Many of these rugs have images of the Kaaba in Mecca and other religious symbols on them. For all these reasons, they would not be just casually tossed around or carelessly discarded to be desecrated by others.” The rancher also told The Examiner that she had heard from Border Patrol agents that migration from countries other than Mexico “has really increased in the last couple years, but drastically even in the last six months.” “Chinese, Germans, Russians, a lot of Middle Easterners,” she continued. “Those Czechoslovakians they caught over on our neighbor this last summer.”Czechoslovakia split into two countries in 1993. Of the more than 300,000 people apprehended at the southern border in the 2017 fiscal year, fewer than one-half of 1 percent were from the countries the rancher listed (1,364 from China, two from Germany, eight from Russia, 61 from countries the State Department deems the Middle East, one from the Czech Republic and one from Slovakia).“There’s a lot of people coming in from not just from Mexico,” the rancher added. “People, the general public, just don’t get the terrorist facts of that.” That claim echoes earlier ones from Mr. Trump: baseless warnings that “unknown Middle Easterners” had infiltrated a migrant caravan and that terrorists were pouring across the southern border.Nowhere in the White House’s 25-page counterterrorism policy, released in October, was the threat of terrorists infiltrating the nation’s southwest border raised. And the State Department, in a September report, said there was “no credible evidence” that terrorist groups had sent operatives to enter the United States through Mexico.The Department of Homeland Security did not respond to requests for evidence of Mr. Trump’s claims. The Washington Examiner report, like most of its predecessors over the past decade, did not include any photographic evidence of the prayer rugs in question and largely relied on hearsay. “Along the Mexican border there have been stories of suspicious items picked up by local residents, including Muslim prayer rugs and notebooks written in both Arabic and Spanish,” former Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, warned in a March 2005 speech.Later that year, former Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, told CBS that, during a visit to the border in Arizona, “we’ve found copies of the Quran, we have found prayer rugs, we have found a lot of stuff written in Arabic, so it’s not just people from Mexico coming across that border.”In 2014, David Dewhurst, then the lieutenant governor of Texas, invoked prayer rugs found “on the Texas side of the border in the brush.” PolitiFact Texas rated his claim “Pants on Fire,” and noted that it could find only one photo of a purported prayer rug, presented by the conservative news outlet Breitbart. That photo, eight scholars and religious figures said, looked nothing like a prayer rug, and it appears to have been removed from the current version of the Breitbart article. (Perhaps, suggested Gawker, the photo was actually of an Adidas soccer jersey.)In 2015, the right-wing outlet Judicial Watch reported, based on unnamed sources, that Muslim prayer rugs were recovered at an Islamic State training camp eight miles away from the United States-Mexico border. Federal and local officials in the United States and Mexico denied those claims.These persistent rumors promote the message that Muslims inherently “constitute a menace and danger to our safety,” Professor Afsaruddin said. “Remember Sinbad and his flying rug in the Arabian Nights? Maybe that is what they are remembering — after all, the Arabian Nights ‘prove’ that this is how Arabs and Muslims get around — talk about enduring stereotypes from the world of fantasy!” The most recent news reports about prayer rugs on the southern border surfaced last summer — describing a scene in the fictional action film “Sicario: Day of the Soldado.”Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email factcheck@nytimes.com.Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPresident Trump said that border walls were going up around the world and that European walls built since 2015 were considered “close to 100% successful.” By Palko KaraszLONDON — In an apparent effort to bolster his case for a wall along the Mexican border, President Trump pointed on Wednesday to examples of walls going up around the world, especially barriers built in Europe, as proof that they work.Here’s an assessment of those claims.What Was Said “There are now 77 major or significant Walls built around the world, with 45 countries planning or building Walls. Over 800 miles of Walls have been built in Europe since only 2015. They have all been recognized as close to 100% successful.” There are now 77 major or significant Walls built around the world, with 45 countries planning or building Walls. Over 800 miles of Walls have been built in Europe since only 2015. They have all been recognized as close to 100% successful. Stop the crime at our Southern Border!While governments around the world have built or planned to build 77 walls, about seven such barriers are not expected to materialize anytime soon, said Elisabeth Vallet, a researcher at the University of Quebec in Montreal who keeps a tally of such construction. Seventy walls is closer to the truth, she said. Europe has built about 1,000 kilometers, or just over 620 miles, of walls since 2015, Ms. Vallet said. The White House did not respond to questions about the source of the numbers the president cited in his tweet. Some observers on social media speculated that he had been watching a report on Fox Business that examined the issue the night before.What Mr. Trump may think of as a “big, beautiful wall,” whether made of concrete or steel slats, would not fit the definition in Europe. Most of the walls he referred to on the Continent are, in fact, different styles of fences with masonry foundations. And not all of them were designed with migration in mind. Countries like Austria, Bulgaria, Greece, Hungary and Slovenia have built walls since 2015 to quell the flow of migrants arriving mainly from the Middle East via the Balkan Route. But Ukraine and the Baltic States that share borders with Russia have started raising barriers to mark their territories in response to perceived threats of invasion from their larger neighbor. “Almost a third of the walls in the world are designed to keep the neighbor out,” Ms. Vallet said. Much like the desert terrain along the United States border with Mexico, the perilous seas, not walls, have been the main obstacle for people trying to get to Europe. The Continent has gone beyond building walls to impede the arrival of undocumented migrants. Frontex, the European Union’s border agency, and national governments raised a security apparatus that is often referred to as Fortress Europe.It includes naval patrols and surveillance on the Mediterranean, where most migrants try to cross into Europe. European governments work with countries like Libya, Morocco and Turkey to try to deter migrants from attempting deadly sea crossings. Last year, an estimated 150,000 illegal crossings were detected on the external borders of the European Union, according to Frontex. (The same person may attempt the crossing and be counted in different locations.) This was 25 percent less than in 2017, and the lowest level in five years.Still, far-right politicians like Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary have promoted the specter of an impending migration crisis, accompanied by xenophobic rhetoric, to justify funds for border protection. [Read more about whether Europe is still facing a migration crisis.]“The boosting and militarization of border security has led to a higher death toll for forcibly displaced persons,” according to a report released in May by the Transnational Institute, a research and advocacy institute.In another report on border walls, researchers at the institute looked at maritime barriers in the Mediterranean and considered them as significant or more significant than land barriers on the European continent. Walls have worked for politicians who used them as a means to mobilize supporters, but not to deal with the problem of migration, Nick Buxton, a researcher with the institute, said by phone. “You can build more and more walls until you’re a completely walled society, but all you’re doing is making it more and more dangerous,” he said. “People will find ways to cross walls.” The fence around the entrance of the tunnel providing the only land access to Britain from Continental Europe has failed to deter illegal crossings. Last year, about 500 migrants, 10 times as many as in 2017, attempted to cross the perilous waters of the English Channel from France. More than half completed the journey.Reports of smugglers operating around most of these points of access suggest to researchers that walls alone cannot solve the problem. “Every time you have a border fence and no public policy that is dealing with the root problem, it is as if you were inviting organized crime to the table,” Ms. Vallet said. Ms. Vallet said she could not think of historical examples of walls that work. She noted that both the Great Wall of China and the Maginot Line in France — each built at great expense — ultimately failed to stop invaders. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jeff Ernst and Kirk SempleSANTA ROSA DE COPAN, Honduras — Hundreds of Hondurans traveling in vehicles and on foot converged on the Guatemalan border on Tuesday, part of a new migrant caravan bound for the United States which President Trump has already used as fresh ammunition in his fight for border wall funding.The caravan began departing from the northern Honduran city of San Pedro Sula on Monday night. Others set off throughout the day on Tuesday. Honduran authorities estimated that between 800 and 1,000 people were in the caravan, while officials from Honduras’ National Human Rights Commission put the range between 1,500 and 2,000.Mr. Trump, whose dispute with Congress over his demand for $5.7 billion for a border wall between Mexico and the United States has led to a partial shutdown of the federal government since Dec. 22, warned on Twitter on Tuesday about the new mass migration.“A big new Caravan is heading up to our Southern Border from Honduras,” he wrote. “Only a Wall, or Steel Barrier, will keep our Country safe! Stop playing political games and end the Shutdown!”The new caravan is following in the footsteps of several other large migrant groups that left Central America last fall and crossed Guatemala and Mexico, with thousands of participants ending up in or near the city of Tijuana in northern Mexico.The Trump administration has excoriated Central American and Mexican governments for failing to stop the caravans, which met little resistance at the various international borders they crossed on the way north.In a show of muscle on Tuesday, however, the Honduran government vowed vigilance at its border with Guatemala and said it had detained 60 minors without proper travel documents to leave Honduras.“The border and the illegal crossings are reinforced,” Julián Pacheco, the Honduran security minister, told reporters on Tuesday. “If people are going to leave, they have to leave through legal, authorized points.”The Mexican government has also vowed to harden its southern border to block the passage of any undocumented migrants in the latest caravan. Olga Sánchez, the country’s interior minister, said that officials had identified about 370 illegal points of entry along its border with Guatemala and planned to monitor them to prevent illegal crossings.Tens of thousands of Hondurans and other Central Americans have migrated north in recent years, fleeing rampant violence and poverty. Some have chosen to move in large, semi-coordinated groups or caravans, offering participants a degree of security against the many perils that lurk on the migrant trail, including muggings, extortion and rape.Until last year, most caravans went largely unnoticed. But a migration that began in southern Mexico last spring drew the attention of Mr. Trump, who warned that the group posed a threat to the United States’ sovereignty.An even larger group set off from Honduras in October, drawing the ire of Mr. Trump as well as international media attention. It was followed by other groups and by mid-November, more than 6,000 migrants, nearly all from Central America, had made it as far as Tijuana.Hundreds of them have applied for asylum in the United States while others have tried to cross the border illegally. Still others have decided to remain in Mexico, availing themselves of the Mexican government’s offer of humanitarian visas and work permits. Hundreds more, frustrated with their inability to cross legally into the United States, have been voluntarily repatriated to their homes in Central America.But neither the dashed hopes of so many from last year’s caravans nor Mr. Trump’s threats seemed to discourage many of the participants in the latest caravan.“Even though a wall is being built, that’s not going to stop us,” said Junior Aleman, 17, who was walking with a group of about a dozen migrants through the mountains of western Honduras on Tuesday. The group had left San Pedro Sula on Monday night and, through a combination of walking and hitching rides, were making their way toward the Honduras-Guatemala border crossing at Agua Caliente.He intended to try to cross illegally into the United States and head for Virginia, where two of his aunts lived. There, he said, he planned to find a job — something that had been hard to come by in Honduras.“There’s no work and I want to help my family,” he said.Jeff Ernst reported from Santa Rosa de Copan, Honduras, and Kirk Semple reported from Mexico City.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Christina GoldbaumOffering traditional Mexican food and social justice conversations, La Morada in the South Bronx is equal parts restaurant and refuge. Run by an immigrant family from Oaxaca, it is home to both fresh tostadas and a community book exchange.The purple walls are adorned with posters denouncing deportations and neighborhood children’s art projects. And one member of the family once spent two weeks in an Arizona immigration jail — by choice — as a form of political protest.But on Friday, an altercation between one of La Morada’s owners and police officers turned the haven into a hostile flash point, fracturing an often strained relationship between police officers in the 40th Precinct and the community they serve in the South Bronx.The interaction resulted in the arrest of Yajaira Saavedra, a daughter of Natalia Mendez and Antonio Saavedra, who opened the restaurant in 2009. Police also attempted to arrest her younger sister, Carolina, 25, but after Carolina started showing signs of a panic attack, police did not carry out the arrest, according to the Saavedra family.A few hours later Ms. Saavedra, 30, was released and her arrest voided after police determined she had not committed a crime.“As an undocumented immigrant, we are always on our toes when it comes to immigration raids and police raids, ” said Ms. Saavedra, who is a recipient of DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program that protects undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children. “They both create terror.”Accounts of the incident depict an ill-fated encounter between police in the midst of a sting operation that ended with an officer’s safety in jeopardy and a community with deep-seated distrust of all police activity.La Morada is situated in a part of New York City where homicides, fueled by entrenched poverty and rival criminal crews fighting over turf, stubbornly persist.Whereas some police precincts in New York now regularly experience no killings in a given year, the 40th Precinct in the Bronx — made up of the Melrose, Mott Haven, and Port Morris neighborhoods — logged 14 in 2016, six in 2017, and eight last year.To crack down on crime, officers in the 40th Precinct are active in the area but have tried to limit negative interactions with residents to maintain public trust, according to the police.“There has been a significant decrease in the number of interactions with the public while crime has continued to decrease,” according to Lt. John Grimpel, an NYPD spokesman. “We continue to correct conditions while at the same time using discretion and precision.”After the community fallout from Ms. Saavedra’s arrest, the 40th Precinct’s Community Affairs Unit said they were doing outreach to explain what happened and hear community members’ concerns. But that outreach does not always attract the community buy-in the unit needs to change residents’ negative perception of the police.“We put ourselves out there, we make ourselves available to the public, but we don’t receive the participation from the community we would like to see,” said Detective Claudia Mera of the Community Affairs Unit.The unit holds a meeting once every three months and invites area residents to bring up concerns.Still, there is no specific plan to address the incident at La Morada.Members of the community believe the tactics they use have created a schism between law-abiding residents and police officers who treat all residents as a possible threat.“I’ve been working in and with this community for two decades now and police brutality has always been an issue, relationships between the police department and the community have always been an issue,” said Alyshia Galvez, 45, a cultural anthropologist who works in the South Bronx. “The way Yajaira was disrespected is the same way other members of the community are disrespected on a daily basis.”For the South Bronx’s immigrant community, a negative experience with the police is not just an issue of respect and trust. It also brings fears for their immigration status. For Ms. Saavedra, her arrest made that fear palpable.“It doesn’t matter if I live in a sanctuary city,” she said. When the incident occurred, “I was just thinking that this could lead to my deportation.”It all began around 4:30 p.m. last Friday when an undercover officer from the Bronx narcotics unit made a felony purchase of narcotics on the street outside the restaurant and the individual from whom she purchased the drugs began acting aggressive, according to a police spokesman.Noticing what appeared to be an arrest happening outside the restaurant, Ms. Saavedra began filming the incident on her phone, mindful of the stories she hears often from friends and customers of what she describes as prejudiced police practices in the neighborhood.The police do “not have a good relationship with the community,” Ms. Saavedra said. “We see them making unfair arrests, racially profiling us, so I started recording so if that happened it could be exposed.”As the undercover officer entered La Morada for her own safety, another plainclothes officer approached Ms. Saavedra’s brother, Marco Saavedra, and asked him to momentarily close the restaurant to new customers. The siblings instead asked that the officers leave, explaining they did not want to be involved in any police activity.“I could tell the officer was getting frustrated, and that’s when he said he would ‘flip the place upside down’ if we didn’t do what he told us to,” said Mr. Saavedra.The police officers then left the restaurant, returning minutes later with additional officers and handcuffing Ms. Saavedra.Ms. Saavedra was trembling as she described her encounter on Monday morning after community members filled the restaurant offering their support.“La Morada is like the watering hole for this community, it’s our meeting point, and this family is an inspiration for us,” said Vanna Valdez, a 31-year-old resident who has lived in the neighborhood her entire life.Ms. Saavedra’s parents opened La Morada in 2009, after living in the United States for 17 years. When they came in 1992 after crossing the Sonoran Desert, their plan was to stay only one year. But settling into Washington Heights, her mother, Natalia Mendez, was impressed by the schools and the neighborhood so she sent for her children to come join them and begin life anew.When she and her husband, Antonio, opened the restaurant on Willis Avenue it became a neighborhood sensation. Longtime neighbors and resident artists became regulars. Mayor Bill de Blasio stopped by. The five moles Ms. Mendez prepared for her customers soon earned glowing reviews from critics who praised the family’s ability to bring both Oaxacan food and its sense of selfless reciprocity to the neighborhood.But the critical need the restaurant filled — providing neighbors a safe, positive, community-oriented space — also underscored the dangers that surrounded it.The attention Yajaira’s arrest garnered has made the incident a rallying cry for neighbors who have experienced similar interactions with the police and feel their voice is rarely heard.On Friday residents arrived at the precinct to demand her release while others went to La Morada to comfort her family members, who were shocked by the way the officers treated Yajaira.“This is the kind of thing I would see in Mexico not here in the United States, a country that respect laws,” said Antonio Saavedra, Ms. Saavedra’s father. “Where is the law? I don’t see it here right now.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanThe federal government said this week it had effectively closed a teeming tent city for migrant children on the Texas border, a facility that opponents of the Trump administration’s tough immigration policies had described as a juvenile prison.But plans are now underway in Florida to nearly double the capacity of a similar, unregulated detention center for migrant teenagers, federal officials confirmed this week.The government plans to expand the number of children housed at a “temporary shelter” in Homestead, Fla., from 1,350 to 2,350 in January, according to a Dec. 26 letter from the Department of Health and Human Services outlining the plan.A department spokeswoman confirmed the plans, but said that the facility still houses only 1,100 minors as of this week. “As you know the numbers are unpredictable,” Lydia Holt, the spokeswoman, said in an email. “Our job is to be prepared and have capacity when/if needed.”Like the tent city in Texas, the facility in Florida, adjacent to Homestead Air Reserve Base, is a “temporary” or “influx” shelter on federal land. Thus, it is not subject to state regulations and inspections intended to guarantee child welfare — only to a loose set of Health and Human Services guidelines.In contrast, permanent shelters traditionally used to detain minors must abide by state requirements for staff vetting and training, as well as standards that ensure minors are educated and safe.The number of children in federal custody has been shrinking rapidly since the Trump administration last month eased a strict security policy that had delayed — often by months — the placement of newly arrived children with sponsors, typically relatives already in the United States.The Trump administration had required that everyone in a potential sponsor’s household submit fingerprints to the F.B.I. for a background check, which many families, some of whom are undocumented, were unwilling to do. Coupled with a surge in unaccompanied teenagers arriving at the southwest border, mostly from Central America, the policy prompted a shortage — and a scramble — for shelter beds.To help handle the overflow, the government in June opened the camp at Tornillo, Tex., a collection of tents on a barren patch of desert about 35 miles southeast of El Paso. It quickly grew to house more than 2,800 migrant teenagers. The camp had the look and feel of a military barracks, with what critics described as inadequate health care and education services.Children had little access to legal services. Instead of several hours of schooling a day, as is offered at licensed shelters for migrant children around the country, children at Tornillo were offered workbooks which they were under no obligation to complete, migrant advocates said.The Office of Inspector General in November criticized the facility’s failure to conduct F.B.I. fingerprint background checks on staff, and also said it had too few staff members to provide sufficient mental health care.Eventually, the private nonprofit operating the sprawling desert site informed the government that it did not wish to extend its management contract, setting it up to close.“This tent city should never have stood in the first place, but it is welcome news that it will be gone,” Will Hurd, the Republican congressman who represents the southwest Texas border region, wrote on Twitter.The number of migrant children under detention reached record numbers last year, an increase due to both the large numbers of children crossing the border and the roadblocks imposed by the Trump administration to releasing them to family members.The crunch has eased with the elimination of the policy requiring fingerprints of all adults in any household in which a migrant child is placed. Fingerprints are now only required of the adult who is sponsoring the minor.As of Jan. 13, about 10,500 migrant minors were held in more than 100 shelters across the country overseen by Health and Human Services, down from about 14,700 in December. Despite the recent decline, the number of children in federal custody remains substantially higher than a year ago, when about 7,550 were staying in shelters.The news that federal officials plan a significant expansion at the Homestead facility is a clear signal, immigration legal analysts say, that the Trump administration is not changing its policy of holding migrant teenagers in detention, but is merely changing the location.Senator Jeff Merkley, a Democrat from Oregon who led a congressional delegation to Tornillo last month and pressed for it to be shuttered, said that the expansion of Homestead shows that “the Trump administration has not changed its fundamental strategy of deliberately hurting kids as part of its ongoing strategy of deterrence.”“It’s a shell game of moving kids from one facility to another,” Mr. Merkley said in a telephone interview.The Homestead site, about 30 miles south of Miami, housed teenage migrants from June 2016 to April 2017, but closed after the number of children entering the country dwindled. It reopened in March 2018 amid the surge in arrivals and is now the country’s biggest detention site for unaccompanied minors.The facility’s “temporary” or “influx” shelter status suggests that children will be kept there only briefly. But the tent city at Tornillo was also intended to be a temporary home for a few hundred migrant children. Instead, its population multiplied and the stay of many children dragged on for months.The children at Homestead sleep in dorms with bunk beds, take classes inside a massive tent and eat meals at a dining hall. Some of the dorms are fashioned from former military barracks. As at other shelters, including state-licensed facilities, the children are not free to leave the site, which is fenced and guarded.“Homestead has the same maladies that Tornillo suffered from,” said Holly Cooper, a co-director of the immigration law clinic at the University of California at Davis.Ms. Cooper will visit Homestead next month with a team to assess whether it is in compliance with the terms of a 1997 consent decree, known as the Flores agreement, establishing guidelines for the treatment of minors in government custody. “We have received multiple complaints about the facility and will make the investigation of the conditions in Homestead a top priority for the coming months,” she said.The Miami-Dade County public school district has not been asked to provide teachers to work at the Homestead facility, even though the district staffed classrooms when the shelter previously opened under the Obama administration.The schools superintendent in Miami-Dade County, Alberto Carvalho, said that he raised a concern about the failure to provide certified teachers at Homestead in a letter last summer to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, but that she did not directly address his question. “It would appear to me that there is a continued inequity of the quality and standards of education provided to children in that shelter,” Mr. Carvalho said.Federal officials said the government was committed to providing excellent care for migrant youths at the facility, and said all staff members receive F.B.I. fingerprint background checks. “Even though Homestead is on federal property, we continue to maintain the high standards of care expected in our permanent shelters,” Ms. Holt, the H.H.S. spokeswoman, said in a statement.Patricia Mazzei contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriThe deployment of active-duty United States troops at the border with Mexico will most likely be extended through September, the Pentagon said Monday.The Pentagon’s border mission had previously been scheduled to end on Dec. 15, and the Defense Department later extended the deployment into January. Then came Monday’s announcement.In a rare use of military force first announced in October, the Trump administration sent about 5,900 active-duty troops to join up with Border Patrol agents and National Guard members, as a caravan of Central American migrants made its way toward the United States.The move was viewed by many as unnecessary political fear-mongering as the midterm elections approached. Border and military officials insisted the caravan was a serious threat.On Monday, the Pentagon said that its “assistance” would continue through Sept. 30 at the Department of Homeland Security’s request, and that the support would focus on “mobile surveillance and detection” and placing concertina wire “between ports of entry.”It’s not clear exactly how many troops are currently at the border or how the number is expected to change — a Pentagon official said in November that the number was expected to dip below the 5,900 initially deployed. The Pentagon did not immediately answer further questions about Monday’s announcement.The extension comes as a new migrant caravan was forming in Honduras, and Mr. Trump and Congress’s differing visions on border security have led to the longest shutdown of the federal government in American history.Mr. Trump continues to push for a wall to stem what he calls a crisis at the border.But the reality is more complicated.Illegal border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades, and border-crossing apprehensions in 2017 were at their lowest level in more than 45 years.But a record number of families have tried to cross the border in recent months, and asylum claims have jumped as many migrant families say they fear returning to their home countries.The troops, who are prevented by the Posse Comitatus Act from engaging in law enforcement activities within the country, had been spread across small bases where they spent the initial weeks setting up concertina wire and other security barriers. Later, the troops were also giving rides to Border Patrol agents and conducting more training.Thomas Gibbons-Neff contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriPresident Trump came away empty-handed for now after the longest federal government shutdown in American history failed to pressure Congress into funding his long-promised border wall, purportedly to stop an inflow of drugs and crime from Mexico.But he is not done making his case on immigration.On Sunday he rattled off several figures on Twitter about how many undocumented immigrants there are in the United States, how much they cost the country financially and how many had illegally voted in Texas.There were already many problems with Mr. Trump’s assertion that undocumented immigrants disproportionately bring with them more drugs and crime. And several experts said they had concerns with the figures he disseminated on Sunday.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.In one tweet on Sunday, Mr. Trump said that “58,000 non-citizens voted in Texas, with 95,000 non-citizens registered to vote.” He was citing an investigation that Texas officials had publicized days earlier but that Democrats in the state immediately questioned.The investigation, by the Texas secretary of state’s office, said that 95,000 people who were registered to vote in the state had at some point told a law enforcement agency that they were not citizens. Out of that number, 58,000 had voted at some point since 1996.Politicians and voters’ advocates are asking officials to investigate both figures.“Because we have consistently seen Texas politicians conjure the specter of voter fraud as pretext to suppress legitimate votes, we are naturally skeptical,” Representative Rafael Anchia, a Democrat in the state House, told The New York Times.Even if the numbers are deemed accurate, those 58,000 voters could have become citizens before casting ballots. More than 50,000 people were naturalized in Texas in 2017, according to the Department of Homeland Security.“We have a reason to distrust these numbers,” said Andre Segura, the legal director for the A.C.L.U. of Texas. “There’s a long history of these numbers being inaccurate. Voter fraud is extremely rare.”In Florida, the administration of the former governor, Rick Scott, had tried to purge noncitizens from voter rolls in 2012. It started with a list of 180,000 voters based on driver’s license data, according to The Tampa Bay Times. Ultimately, 85 people were removed from the rolls, according to the newspaper.In another tweet, Mr. Trump said that “the cost of illegal immigration so far this year is $18,959,495,168. Cost Friday was $603,331,392.”It is not clear where Mr. Trump arrived at those figures. They track with a tweet from last month in which he declared that the country loses “250 Billion Dollars a year on illegal immigration.”But several experts said those figures were far too high.There is little research on how much undocumented immigrants cost the United States. The highest costs would generally be related to education and health care, but many undocumented immigrants pay taxes and are typically barred from receiving many of the costliest benefits, like Medicaid.No study seems to comprehensively address a net cost, instead focusing on either the costs or the benefits.“They tend to talk past each other, unfortunately,” said Randy Capps, the director of research for American programs at the Migration Policy Institute.The National Academy of Sciences concluded in 2016 that immigration, both legal and illegal, benefited the economy. It said that the average immigrant cost state and local governments about $1,600 a year from 2011 to 2013, but that their children and grandchildren paid far more in taxes than they consumed in public services.Alex Nowrasteh, a senior immigration policy analyst at the Cato Institute, said the highest figure he had seen came from the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors restricting immigration. It has said undocumented immigrants cost the country at least $116 billion per year.The Cato Institute disputes that figure, which Mr. Nowrasteh said did not take into account the economic benefits of undocumented immigrants. He and others have questioned the group’s methodology.“There’s no basis to any of those numbers about the fiscal cost,” he said. “The president’s numbers are even twice as bad.”Mr. Trump also claimed that in the United States there are “at least 25,772,342 illegal aliens, not the 11,000,000 that have been reported for years.”Again, several experts said Mr. Trump’s numbers were too high.It appears that Mr. Trump is making his claim based on a study conducted by researchers affiliated with Yale University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which estimated the number at 22 million.Starting with an estimate in 1990, the researchers modeled how the population would change in future years based on immigration rates, demographic change and deportations, among other factors, eventually arriving at the 22 million estimate.The conclusions of that study, published in the journal PLOS One in September, have been challenged, with some questioning whether it underestimated the number of immigrants who had left the country.The researchers have also acknowledged that their results diverge from existing estimates. Most other studies say the number is around 11 million or 12 million. The Pew Research Center estimated that it was about 10.7 million in 2016. In 2015, the Department of Homeland Security estimated the number to be 12 million.“There’s been no evidence of a new, rapid increase of the population,” Mr. Capps said.William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, said the methodology used by Pew had been vetted over decades.“They have a general sense that what they are doing is reasonably O.K.,” he said of the Pew researchers. “I trust them. They have been doing this for a long time.”Manny Fernandez contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Trip GabrielLAS CRUCES, N.M. — In a vast congressional district of fluted mountain ranges, chile crops and oil and gas wells on the country’s southern border, New Mexico Democrats in November broke the Republican hold on a House seat that had endured for 37 years, except for a two-year break.Xochitl Torres Small, a 34-year-old water rights lawyer, won by carefully calibrating her message as a problem-solver, like several other moderate Democrats who flipped House seats nationwide last year. Though the region is 55 percent Hispanic, she did not harp on President Trump’s border wall or his incitement of fears of immigrants bringing crime and drugs.She did not need to.“In New Mexico, we experience the positions of this president a little more intimately than a lot of people,” said Jeff Steinborn, a Democratic state lawmaker from Las Cruces. “The race baiting, divisive border politics has a very human face in our community.”As Mr. Trump agreed on Friday to end the longest government shutdown on record, in the face of  some of his lowest approval ratings ever, he backed down at least temporarily from his campaign promise of a border wall. Doing so could come at a political price with his supporters.But at the same time, there already has been a toll to his party for his insistence on hundreds of miles of new border barriers.Nowhere is that clearer than in the Southwest, where growing diversity and Mr. Trump’s demeaning rhetoric about Latino migrants are pulling parts of the region from the once-firm grip of Republicans.In addition to Ms. Torres Small’s district, Democrats flipped a House seat in the midterms on the southern border in Arizona and four seats in rapidly diversifying Orange County in Southern California.CALIFORNIAARIZONABorder districtsflipped by DemocratsNEWMEXICOTEXASDem.Rep.MEXICOGULF OFMEXICOPACIFICOCEANCALIF.Border districtsflipped by DemocratsARIZ.N.M.TEX.Dem.Rep.MEXICOCALIF.ARIZ.Border districtsflipped by DemocratsN.M.TEX.Rep.Dem.MEXICOGULF OFMEXICOPACIFICOCEANSource: Election results and race calls from The Associated PressBy Jugal K. Patel/The New York TimesIn Arizona, Kyrsten Sinema, a Democrat, captured a Republican-held Senate seat, while in Texas the Democratic Senate nominee, Beto O’Rourke, came closer to winning a major statewide race than any other Democrat in 20 years. Ms. Sinema won 69 percent of Latino voters and Mr. O’Rourke 64 percent, according to exit polls.Each of the nine House members whose districts touch the border from California to Texas opposes a wall as the wrong solution for border security.“The irony of the wall is it works best the further you are from the border,” said Senator Martin Heinrich, Democrat of New Mexico, the state with the highest share of Hispanics.While Mr. Heinrich glided to re-election in November, some Democrats from nearly all-white states farther north went down to defeat. “It was a huge issue in North Dakota and Montana in the Senate races,” Mr. Heinrich said.“This constant picture painted by the president of this dangerous borderlands region is so incongruous with daily life,” he added.Republican analysts play down the role of immigration and the border in the recent Democratic advances in the Southwest. Stan Barnes, a former Arizona state lawmaker and current Republican lobbyist in Phoenix, said the positions of Ms. Sinema on the border were nearly identical to those of her Trump-hugging opponent, Martha McSally.“Kyrsten Sinema, you couldn’t tell the difference between her and Martha McSally on matters of the border,” he said. “She did not run as a Democrat, she ran as an independent or an Arizonan, and did not concede one bit of being tough on illegal immigration to Martha McSally.”Demographers have long predicted the growing share of Latinos in Texas and Arizona would turn those Republican-leaning states a shade of purple or blue. Democrats’ expectations of awakening “the sleeping giant” of Latino voters have been repeatedly thwarted.But 2018 may have moved them a step closer to the future. More than one in four Latino voters said they cast a ballot in a midterm election for the first time, versus 12 percent for whites, according to the Pew Research Center. In congressional races across the country, about 69 percent voted for the Democrat.“Immigration is the big deal breaker in not voting Republican,” said Joseph Garcia, director of the Latino Public Policy Center at Arizona State University.Because Latinos are much younger on average than whites, and many are just forming a partisan preference, Mr. Garcia predicted that Mr. Trump’s policies and language about immigrants would sour them on Republicans in federal elections for years to come.“It wasn’t just the wall, it was the rhetoric over three years demonizing Latinos in general,” he said. “That has a longer-lasting effect than just this administration.”“The die has been cast in that Arizona’s future is largely Latino,” he added, “and they’re all U.S. citizens because they were born here.” The median age of Latinos in Arizona is 26, and for non-Hispanic whites, 43.To James Kolbe, a Republican who in the 1990s and 2000s represented the Arizona congressional seat that flipped in the midterms, south and east of Tucson, the president’s rhetoric about illegal immigrants was reminiscent of the white-hot anger he heard at town hall events in the mid-2000s. But that talk is out of date, he said, because the reality on the southern border is far different.With illegal immigration near a 50-year low, more Mexicans are leaving the United States than entering. Meanwhile, there is a spike in families and children from Central America turning themselves in to border agents.Critics of the Trump administration say the actual border crisis is one of its own making because it has failed to allocate resources to process asylum seekers and humanely house children and families.In the race for Mr. Kolbe’s old district, which has swung between the parties, the losing Republican supported Mr. Trump’s wall, while the Democratic victor, Ann Kirkpatrick, opposed new border barriers and called for a path to citizenship for “Dreamers,” the immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children.While the district’s overall population since 2000 has grown by 14.5 percent, its Latino population soared 53 percent, according to a New York Times analysis of census data.Back in New Mexico, Ms. Torres Small won a narrow victory in the Second District thanks to a voter surge in Democratic-leaning Las Cruces, the state’s second-largest city.Turnout in the city and surrounding Doña Ana County was up 4 percent over 2010, while in Lea County — a Republican stronghold — turnout fell more than 7 percent, starkly showing the contrast between Democratic and Republican enthusiasm, which many observers trace to Mr. Trump.On Saturday, chants of “No wall! No wall!” broke out as Ms. Torres Small spoke at the local women’s march about the need to compromise with the president on the shutdown.“We have to make sure that people who live on the border have a voice for what we want our border to look like,” Ms. Torres Small said, according to The Las Cruces Sun News.Meanwhile, at a street market downtown where farmers sold honey and chile wreaths, shoppers said they had no sense of a crisis on the border, which is 40 miles south and buffered by scrubland of juniper and yucca.Last year the Border Patrol replaced 20 miles of low fencing meant to stop vehicles with a column-style barrier, 18 to 30 feet tall, which one shopper called a “Jurassic Park wall.”“I really don’t think about it very much at all,” said Patricia Mihok, who was selling children’s books she had written about wildlife of the Chihuahuan Desert, which straddles the international border. She worried that a border wall would threaten migrating species.Rory Richardson, 70, a retired airline pilot, called a wall a waste of money. He blamed the president for falsely accusing immigrants of crimes unsupported by statistics.“He brings out the very worst in this society,” Mr. Richardson said. “He’s talking to the people who supported him from Day 1, that don’t care about the truth. They’ve made up their minds and don’t confuse me with the facts.”But Henry Diaz, 85, a retired sheriff of Doña Ana County, who was strolling with his wife after a breakfast of huevos rancheros at Rosie’s Cafe, said a border wall was needed.“Everybody has a fence around their house,” he said. “Why do you have that? You need the privacy.”New Mexico, which last voted for a Republican for president in 2004, was once more of a political battleground than it is today. Democrats made sweeping gains in the midterms, winning not just the Second District but also the governor’s race and enlarging their majorities in the Legislature.Last week, Democratic lawmakers in Santa Fe introduced bills to make New Mexico a “sanctuary state,” which would bar state agencies from helping federal immigration authorities who seek to deport undocumented immigrants.“I think it’s important that New Mexico not help Donald Trump enact basically racist immigration policies,” Mr. Steinborn, the Las Cruces lawmaker, said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Azam Ahmed, Miriam Jordan and Elisabeth MalkinTIJUANA, Mexico — The government of Mexico said Friday that it disagreed with the Trump administration’s decision to roll out a policy that forces asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while they pursue their cases in the United States — but said it would take in some of the asylum seekers anyway.In a statement, the Mexican government said that it “does not agree with this unilateral measure implemented by the government of the United States” and outlined the conditions that it had negotiated since the Department of Homeland Security announced the plan a month ago.Roberto Velasco, a spokesman for Mexico’s Foreign Ministry, said it was “trying to respond to U.S. policy” with respect to the nation’s own immigration policy. “We’re making a sovereign decision to allow some people into Mexico with very clear limits based on what our laws and international commitments allow,” he said.The policy, which the Trump administration said Thursday it would begin to implement, marks an escalation in the administration’s attempt to rein in illegal immigration and a dramatic reversal of the decades-long practice of allowing applicants to request protection from within the United States or at official ports of entry, and to remain in the country while their cases wind through immigration courts.If applied to a majority of asylum applicants, it could potentially flood Mexican border towns like Tijuana with thousands more people seeking protection in the United States.Currently, most migrants who request asylum at the border are released within days with a notice to appear at an immigration court in the interior of the country for their proceedings, a practice that President Trump has derided as “catch and release.” It takes years for cases to advance through the courts. Only 20 percent of all asylum applicants ultimately win the right to remain permanently in the country. That figure is even lower, 10 percent, for Central Americans, who account for most of those requesting asylum at the border.Mexican officials said on Friday that they had held three meetings to discuss the proposal with their counterparts in the United States since it was first announced on Dec. 20, but that ultimately the Department of Homeland Security decided unilaterally to send the first returnees.Still, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico has said he would welcome migrants and promised to respect human rights while affording them economic opportunities here in Mexico. The migrants would be granted yearlong humanitarian visas to live and work in Mexico while they await court hearings on the American side. Those court hearings would have to be scheduled within the year, officials said.The Trump administration said the measure would curtail illegal immigration while remaining faithful to international law.“For far too long, our immigration system has been exploited by smugglers, traffickers and those with no legal right to be in the United States,” said Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, on Thursday.The Department of Homeland Security said that the claims for those returned would be adjudicated within a year, with an initial hearing held within 45 days. But immigration courts are already clogged with 800,0000 pending cases, raising questions about whether this timetable can be achieved, experts said.The policy would apply both to some asylum seekers who try to enter the United States at border crossings and to those apprehended by the authorities after illegally touching United States soil.Historically, undocumented single men have represented the bulk of those arrested and subsequently removed from the county. But since 2013, unaccompanied children and families have arrived in ever-larger numbers.That influx of people was cited by a Department of Homeland Security fact sheet as justification for the policy. Children cannot be detained for more than 72 hours in border holding facilities, prompting the authorities to release their adult parents with them, and the fact sheet referred to a shift in the profile of immigrants reaching the border, “from a demographic who could be quickly removed when they had no legal right to stay to one that cannot be detained and timely removed.”Analysts and lawyers raised other questions about the program.Human rights groups questioned the ethics of sending people fleeing in search of safety back into Mexico, which itself is experiencing horrific violence. Politically, some have asked why Mexico’s new president would essentially agree to turn his country into a waiting room for American asylum seekers.The Mexican government has cautioned that the details of who would be returned and when were still unclear. But in its statement, the government said that it would not accept unaccompanied children or people suffering from health problems. Mexico has yet to agree to accept families, but opened the door for future discussions.Also unclear were the logistics of how the asylum seekers would be taken back into the United States for hearings, or how they might obtain legal counsel while waiting in Mexico.Lawsuits challenging the policy, which may expand to other border areas, are widely expected.Immigrant advocates criticized the administration for what they regard as a denial of due process to asylum seekers fleeing extreme violence or persecution in their home countries and making a harrowing trek to reach the United States.“Once again, the Trump administration is doing everything they can to sabotage the asylum process and harm those who come to us in need of protection,” said Betsy Fisher, policy director for the International Refugee Assistance Project in New York.They cautioned that the policy will imperil the lives of immigrants, including many families with children, stuck in encampments and shelters in Mexico. Already, asylum seekers are waiting months — during which some sleep outdoors — to put in their applications.“Whether in shelters or not, the families are sitting ducks for criminal organizations,” said Lee Gelernt, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union who fought in federal court to reunite migrant parents and children who were separated during a border crackdown last year. Family separations were officially suspended in late June.César Palencia, who is in charge of migrant affairs for the city of Tijuana, said that the city had received no information from the Mexican government about the plan and was not ready to receive more migrants.Tijuana did not have the space to accommodate them or resources to incorporate them, and did not want to “convert itself into a kind of shelter” for these returned migrants, he said.The border city is already overwhelmed with Mexicans deported from the United States, who arrive at the rate of 120 people each day, as well as with migrants from Central America and other countries who have come seeking entry into the United States.Tijuana is still dealing with the aftermath of the last big caravan of Central American migrants. Of some 7,000 people who arrived in November, between 1,500 and 2,000 remained in Tijuana, he said. Another caravan of between 10,000 and 12,000 migrants is heading north from southern Mexico, many likely toward Tijuana.About 1,200 people are on a list awaiting an interview with United States immigration authorities to seek asylum. Their stay could extend to at least one year if they are returned to Tijuana to wait for a court decision after making a claim.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del RealCALEXICO, Calif. — The barbed wire overhead evokes danger and violence, but Maritza Hurtado cannot take it seriously. When the sharp coils were placed on top of the old border fence several months ago, running right along the main boulevard, she chalked it up to political propaganda from a White House that does not understand life along the Southwest frontier.“This is not a war zone,” Ms. Hurtado said from her tax and immigration consulting office in downtown Calexico, from which she can peer into Mexico. “I’ve had a business here for 30 years and we’ve never needed the barbed wire. Why now? To me, it feels as if I’m enclosed.”For nearly a year, President Trump has pointed with pride to a renovation project replacing two miles of border fencing in Calexico. He hailed it as “the start of our Southern Border WALL!” — to the great consternation of many of the town’s residents, who are wary of becoming the public face of a hard-line immigration policy that most here do not agree with. The attention the president’s tweet brought was surreal, in part because the construction replaced an unsightly stretch of steel fencing that was already there.Nationally, partisans and journalists began to debate whether the 30-foot-tall steel slats that make up the replacement barrier should be called a “wall” like the one Mr. Trump promised during his campaign. Others said it was just a “fence,” a distinction that has taken on great importance in Washington.Lost amid the battle over credit and semantics was how Calexico residents themselves felt about becoming characters in Trump-era political theater. For many, a sense of apprehension turned to anger when the military installed barbed wire on top of older border fencing, which runs through downtown.“This community is basically being used for political purposes,” said Ms. Hurtado, who served as the town’s mayor until December. “And it’s happening throughout these border cities that are just like ours.” She tried to remain diplomatic when television news crews asked her for comment about the barrier last spring, she said, to “avoid making more drama for this community that has nothing to do with the national problem.”But she said she felt incredulous over the administration’s insistence that the replacement fence is part of the wall: “Before we started this project here to do the replacement, Border Patrol came to visit us about three times to ask us to please participate in avoiding the drama. They came to say, three times, ‘You guys, just so you know, we’re starting this project, and it’s not the wall,” recounted Ms. Hurtado, a Democrat who did not vote for the president. “And then here comes Trump and says, ‘It’s the wall!’”[Read more about how the people who live on the border feel about the wall: "We have other problems here that need fixing."]The town has received a steady dose of attention from Trump administration officials since last spring. Vice President Mike Pence visited the barrier in April and said the administration was “committed to seeing the construction of a border wall.” In October, the Homeland Security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, visited to unveil a plaque crediting the president with the barrier.The number of pending immigration cases has grown by nearly 50 percent under President Trump, what many lawyers and advocates say is a crisis.This month, the president tweeted again: “The Fake News Media keeps saying we haven’t built any NEW WALL,” he wrote, apparently in reference to the barrier in Calexico. “Below is a section just completed on the Border. Anti-climbing feature included. Very high, strong and beautiful! Also, many miles already renovated and in service!”Amid a continuing national debate about the border, which has resulted in the longest government shutdown in history, many in this town of 40,000 have struggled to reconcile ominous warnings they see projected from the White House about life on the border with their own experiences living in the quiet agricultural community 120 miles east of San Diego.Calexico has long celebrated its interdependent relationship with Mexicali, its sister city directly across the line; the two cities’ downtowns are bisected by pillars where the border lies. Shoppers from urban Mexicali, which has a population of about 1 million, are vital to Calexico’s small-town economy and cross to shop at large outlet stores on the American side. Americans head to the Mexican side on weekends for cheap health care, entertainment and concerts.“We’re right up against each other. Each city depends on the other,” said Hildy Carrillo, the executive director of the Calexico Chamber of Commerce, who like Ms. Hurtado did not vote for Mr. Trump. “The families are on both sides of the border. The businesses are on both sides of the border. And the education, the entertainment and the culture are on both sides of the border. Punto.”[Read about how charities are stepping in to help released migrants.]Rather than a border wall, residents here express enthusiasm for modernizing the Calexico West Port of Entry, which they hope will expedite traffic and allow for a fluid flow of business between the two sides. The number of legal northbound crossers each day, leading to hourslong lines, is astounding: about 20,000 pedestrians and up to 20,000 vehicles, according to the General Services Administration.President Trump says construction for the wall is underway. We mapped the current fencing and what his administration has done so far.Ground was broken in 2015 on the first stage of the renovation, a $121.9 million project completed in September 2018. Town officials are hopeful the second phase will be funded by Congress.“We have been waiting for that funding, for years, for our port of entry,” Ms. Hurtado said. “That’s been our struggle. We don’t need a wall. We’ve been struggling to get the money for the door.” The president’s previous threats to shut down the border had also concerned her. “We’re depressed and you’re going to kill us if you shut things down. It’s like, help us by knowing us, you know?”After Mr. Trump’s tweet about the “Border WALL!” Ms. Hurtado had T-shirts made and distributed. They read, “It’s Not A Wall.”The high volume of legal traffic does not mean that illegal border crossings do not happen here. The risk those migrants pose, however, and the characterization of the numbers who jump the fence is enormously overstated, Ms. Carrillo said.The real danger, many here said, lies in drug trafficking conducted through sophisticated tunnel systems built by cartels.During a drive through downtown Calexico, Victor Carrillo — Ms. Carrillo’s cousin and a former City Council member, mayor and county supervisor — pointed to a house where federal authorities found an expansive underground tunnel in 2016 that ran from the United States to Mexico. As he drove, Mr. Carrillo and a friend pointed to other areas where tunnels were found, where sink holes formed because of attempted burrowing and where the authorities suspect there could be new tunnels.“They’re everywhere. Every new apartment complex you see go up, you figure” there might be a tunnel there, Mr. Carrillo said.A wall, he pointed out, does not even begin to address that problem.The politics of the Imperial Valley are generally not with the president. The county gave Hillary Clinton 68 percent of the vote in 2016 compared with 27 percent for Mr. Trump. The 51st Congressional District, which runs along the southern border from the Arizona border to San Diego, supported the incumbent Democrat, Representative Juan Vargas, with 71 percent of the vote versus 29 percent for his Republican challenger. Eighty-four percent of Imperial County residents are Latino, according to 2018 data by the United States Census Bureau.That is not to say that there are not people here and in the broader Imperial Valley, which is a large agricultural region, who support the president’s policies. But in Calexico, it seems, few like to speak about it publicly. And even some of those who lean conservative have reservations about the president’s talk on immigration.John Renison, 70, an Army veteran and longtime Calexico resident who is a former City Council member and county supervisor, began his political career here in the 1990s as a Republican but is reluctant to identify with either party today. But he said the barbed wire running through Calexico is a distasteful statement, as is, he said, the president’s general rhetoric about immigration.“We do not have a crisis on the border. We are not in fear of being invaded like he said,” Mr. Renison said. “What’s really laughable is you think you’re going to stop illegal immigration by constructing walls and fences.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Paulina Villegas and Kirk SempleTIJUANA, Mexico — A new Trump administration policy forcing certain asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while their cases are processed in the United States took effect on Tuesday, when American officials ushered the first such migrant through a Southern California border gate into northern Mexico.The migrant, a 55-year-old man from Honduras, had applied for asylum in the United States after crossing the border from Mexico. Under the new policy, he will live in Mexico temporarily, returning to the United States only for court dates pertaining to his case.Dressed in a brown jacket and black cap, he looked dazed as he emerged late Tuesday morning on the Mexican side of the border in Tijuana and was swarmed by scores of reporters, photographers and television cameramen.“I’m very tired,” he mumbled before being quickly spirited away in a van by Mexican migration officials.The new policy, first announced in December by Trump administration officials, is a dramatic step in what they cast as an effort to rein in asylum fraud and illegal immigration. It represents a major shift from a longstanding practice that permitted most migrants who requested asylum to go free in the United States while they awaited the outcome of their cases.American officials said that under that policy, many asylum applicants would never show up for their court dates and would simply vanish into the interior of the country.If the policy is applied to a majority of asylum applicants on the Mexico-United States border, it could result in thousands more migrants flooding Mexico’s border states every year.Mexican officials said that while they disagreed with the Trump administration’s new policy, they have agreed to take in certain asylum seekers and vowed to protect the migrants’ human rights and allow them to work in Mexico while their cases unfold in the United States.Rodulfo Figueroa, an official with Mexico’s National Migration Institute, said the man in the brown jacket, whose name was not revealed, would be the only migrant returned to Mexico on Tuesday under the new policy, but that more are expected soon.“We’re just reacting to a unilateral decision,” said Mr. Figueroa, a top federal migration official in the Mexican state of Baja California.Since the Trump administration’s announcement of the new asylum policy, Mexican officials have been negotiating with their counterparts in Washington to define the conditions under which they would accept the migrants.On Monday night, Tonatiuh Guillén López, the commissioner of Mexico’s National Migration Institute, said Mexico would only accept migrants from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras between the ages of 18 and 60. He also said that Mexico would only receive returned asylum seekers through the border crossing that connects Tijuana with San Diego, California.The returned asylum seekers will be granted special four-month, multiple-entry visas that would allow them to travel to the United States for their court dates and then once again return to Mexico, Mexican officials said. Some of the returnees will already have one-year humanitarian visas which allow them to work and travel freely in the country. Asylum cases in the United States can take years to resolve, yet it remained unclear whether and under what terms the Mexican visas would be extended.The American policy change applies to some asylum seekers who try to enter the United States at official crossings on the country’s southern border, or are apprehended on American soil after trying to cross illegally. But it will not apply to Mexican asylum seekers who might risk harm if returned to Mexico, the very place where they are claiming fear of persecution as grounds for their asylum claim.Migrants’ advocates and human rights groups have vociferously criticized the American policy shift, saying Mexico, which is suffering historic levels of violence, is not a safe place to send people who already fear for their lives. In addition, Tijuana and other border towns are already overwhelmed with migrants deported from the United States as well as migrants from Central America and elsewhere seeking to enter the country.In meetings in recent days, American immigration officials have assured advocates that the returns would be conducted in close coordination with Mexican officials, who will preapprove all returnees. For now, the officials said, only single adult males in good health would be sent back to Mexico.While the Mexican government has claimed that the policy implementation was a unilateral American move, the United States immigration officials, from the Customs and Border Protection agency, assured the advocates that they had been working with their Mexican counterparts at all levels for months and would continue to be in daily contact for at least the next 30 days while the program was gaining speed.American advocacy groups are expected to file legal challenges to the new policy in the coming days, after gathering evidence from its rollout.President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico has said he wanted to welcome migrants and foster employment opportunities for them, and he has begun to follow through on his promises, encouraging immigrants to stay and work in Mexico by making it easier to get visas and promoting job-creation strategies.Some asylum seekers who had just arrived in Tijuana were surprised to hear on Tuesday about the new American asylum policy.Anabel España, 39, a Honduran migrant who hoped to apply for asylum in the United States, said that staying in Mexico for many months was never her plan.“We don’t know what can happen to you here, if you will be kidnapped,” she said. “Tijuana is not exactly the safest place, you know?”But Ms. España, who said she had fled extortion threats in Honduras, said at least she could work and wouldn’t be held in a detention center in the United States.“At least here we are free,” she said.Azam Ahmed contributed reporting from Mexico City.Follow Kirk Semple and Paulina Villegas on Twitter: @KirkSemple and @Paulina_VV.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersOne reader calls it “a courageous and mature decision.” Another sees it as “his failure to bully Speaker Nancy Pelosi.”To the Editor:Re “Mr. Trump’s Shutdown Was a Cruel Joke” (editorial, Jan. 26):While this editorial makes good points about the cruelty and folly of the shutdown, the negative tone misses an opportunity. President Trump made a courageous and mature decision Friday to reopen the government. In the best interest of the whole country, he dared the predictable avalanche of “caving” and “incompetence” insults from both the right and the left.So let’s give him the praise and appreciation he deserves. If even his “enemies” like us are fair to him now, in his next tight spot he may be encouraged to decide as wisely again.Betsy DurenTucsonTo the Editor:As a Democrat I’d like to let President Trump know that I hope his failure to bully Speaker Nancy Pelosi into paying for the wall is the beginning of the end of the bombast and incompetence he has shown in his first two years in office. While it is still too early to know if he has learned anything from this experience, it should not be lost on him that we now have a Congress capable of standing up to him and doing what is necessary to make sure he is held accountable for his actions.Michael ScottSan FranciscoTo the Editor:Let’s be honest. The wall debate has nothing to do with the actual merits or costs of constructing a wall. For Republicans, it’s a symbol of getting tough on illegal immigration. For Democrats, it’s a means of thwarting President Trump and gaining popularity among liberal and Latino voters. For the nation, it’s a symptom of politics trumping good government. William M. GordonUpper Montclair, N.J. To the Editor:“A Nation Adrift in Vast Ripples of the Shutdown” (front page, Jan. 27) provides an outstanding overview of the impacts of the shutdown. Its most lasting impact may be the government’s ability to recruit and retain employees who have other options.Ethan AnnisSan FranciscoAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matt Stevens, Emily S. Rueb and Elisha BrownOn the night of Jan. 10, someone walked into a home tucked near the forests that blanket Nevada’s northwest border and fatally shot 56-year-old Connie Koontz, the authorities said. Three days later, again under the cover of darkness, someone walked into another Douglas County home about a mile up the road and shot and killed Sophia Renken, 74.Then, three days after that, Washoe County sheriff’s deputies searched a home about 40 miles farther north on La Guardia Lane. There, they found 81-year-old Gerald David and his wife, Sharon David, 80, both with gunshot wounds; they, too, were dead.For nine days, law enforcement officials from across the region banded together to both reassure and ready residents who had been shaken by what prosecutors would call “brutal murders.” Lock your doors and windows, the authorities said; turn on outdoor lights; keep your cellphones handy.By Sunday — the 10th day of regionwide panic — they were able to deliver some calming news: A suspect was in custody; they believed the man, who they have varyingly identified as Wilbur or Wilber Martinez-Guzman, was responsible for all four homicides.Mr. Martinez-Guzman, who is either 19 or 20 years old, had been arrested at a home on Saturday afternoon on felony burglary and immigration charges, Sheriff Ken Furlong of Carson City said, though prosecutors added that they intended to charge him with the murders. Law enforcement officials did not discuss the motive in the killings.Immigration officials, Sheriff Furlong said, had notified law enforcement that Mr. Martinez-Guzman had been in the Carson City area for about a year, but “was likely in the United States illegally and was detainable.” Jail records show that he is under a hold from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which Sheriff Furlong said prevented him from being released on bail.The agency said Wednesday that Mr. Martinez-Guzman “is a citizen of Guatemala who ICE believes is unlawfully present in the United States.” There were no prior criminal or immigration encounters noted in his history, officials said, while also confirming that they had placed a so-called detainer on him.“Four people in Nevada viciously robbed and killed by an illegal immigrant who should not have been in our Country,” President Trump said in a tweet on Monday. “We need a powerful Wall!”The disclosure that Mr. Martinez-Guzman may be in the United States illegally has thrust the case into a set of high-profile murders that Mr. Trump has leveraged to bolster his arguments about immigration and the need for a wall along the country’s southwest border. The dispute over funding for such a wall remains at the center of a government shutdown.The president has previously called attention to the murder of Mollie Tibbetts, a 20-year-old college student, who the police have said was killed by an undocumented immigrant from Mexico. (Her father has called on people to not exploit her death to promote a political agenda.) Mr. Trump also said it was “time to get tough on Border Security” after the authorities arrested a man in California in December who they said fatally shot a police officer and had entered the United States illegally.In the meantime, friends and family of the four Nevada victims — some of whom flanked the police at the Sunday news conference — were left to grieve.Eddie England, 70, who met Ms. Renken through the Carson Valley chapter of the Antique Automobile Club of America, said in an interview on Tuesday that four lives could have been saved if Mr. Martinez-Guzman had been expelled from the country.He described Ms. Renken as an independent and tough woman who drove a 1930s Ford Model A. Still, she moved to Gardnerville in Douglas County a few years ago to be closer to people — a situation she felt would be safer, Mr. England said.“And this,” he said, “is what happened to her.”“It’s hard to take.”Alan Squailia, a friend of Mr. David, described Gerald and his wife as “salt-of-the-earth people,” who were active community servants and animal lovers.“If you needed a friend, and needed someone to help you, it was this couple,” Mr. Squailia, 75, said.Looking at a photograph of Mr. Martinez-Guzman, Mr. Squailia said he could imagine that Mr. David would have invited the young man into his home if he had been looking for help.“The whole city of Reno is devastated over this,” he said. “We still can’t wrap our minds around it.”Doris Burke contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir Zaveri and Annie CorrealFor eight years, it seemed to Margarita Cruz that the management at the Trump Organization’s golf club in Westchester County, N.Y., did not notice — or did not care — that the green card and Social Security card she had used to get hired were fake, purchased in Queens for about $120.Ms. Cruz, a housekeeper, said she cleaned guest rooms, offices and shops at the club. She laundered sheets and pool towels. But that all ended this month, she said.Ms. Cruz and about a dozen other employees — housekeepers, landscapers and a head chef — at the club, Trump National Golf Club, were fired Jan. 18 because they were in the country illegally, according to interviews with Ms. Cruz and the former workers’ lawyer.The firings were first reported on Saturday by The Washington Post.The New York Times reported in December that undocumented immigrants had been employed at another club owned by the Trump Organization, the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N.J., and that they were kept on the payroll for years even though management there had some knowledge of their fraudulent papers.Several workers deemed ineligible to work in the country had already been fired at the Bedminster club, according to people familiar with the matter.The employment of undocumented workers at Trump Organization properties runs counter to President Trump’s anti-immigrant rhetoric, which he has made central to his campaign and his presidency. He is currently in a heated political battle to build a wall along the border with Mexico, which he claims would stop drugs and crime. Evidence does not support Mr. Trump’s thesis.There is nothing to indicate that Mr. Trump or Trump Organization executives knew about the workers’ immigration status at either golf club. But Ms. Cruz, 44, said she believed that management at the Westchester club knew about her immigration status before January.Her papers were requested again two years ago, she said, not just when she was hired. Anibal Romero, who represents Ms. Cruz and 14 other former workers at the golf club, the majority of whom were fired Jan. 18, was stronger in his wording.“I’m not buying that they didn’t know,” Mr. Romero said.Neither Ms. Cruz nor the other former workers received benefits like health insurance or a pension, as other golf club employees did, Mr. Romero said. Most of his clients came into the country through Mexico, Mr. Romero said, and were originally from countries such as Mexico, Ecuador and Honduras.“This was a two-tiered system,” he said. “The people who were legal and the people who are undocumented.”He said the workers were fired by being individually called into a room by an executive, who read their names off a list.The White House referred questions to the Trump Organization on Saturday. The Trump Organization and the Westchester golf club did not respond to requests for comment.In a statement to The Post, Eric Trump, who manages the Trump Organization with his brother Donald Jr., said: “We are making a broad effort to identify any employee who has given false and fraudulent documents to unlawfully gain employment. Where identified, any individual will be terminated immediately.”Ms. Cruz entered the United States in 2009 near Piedras Negras, Mexico, on the Texas border, she said, with a 12-year-old daughter and a 9-year-old son. Her parents had paid a coyote $11,000 for the trip.She said that in Mexico she earned about $40 a week working at a restaurant. She started at $11 per hour at the golf club, and then got a raise to $14 per hour. She said she did not have any savings when she was fired because she had been paying back her parents.Mr. Trump’s political rhetoric has been surprising, she said, because he would regularly come by the golf club before his election and give the workers $50 tips in cash.“He would come over and say hello, ask your name and how long you had worked at the club,” Ms. Cruz said. “He would ask you how you liked the rug, or a picture on the wall, things like that.”She added, “If he really did hate Latinos so much, why did he come over to talk to us?”She said some of her colleagues had worked at the golf club for 18 years.“I couldn’t understand why he started talking like that about Latinos now and why he fired us,” she said.Mr. Romero said he is seeking federal and state investigations of the golf club to see if it had been exploiting the undocumented workers.Follow Mihir Zaveri on Twitter: @MihirZaveri.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylensAfter being rescued from a dinghy off the Libyan coast, a group of African migrants was unexpectedly welcomed by the Spanish city of Reus and brought in as part of the town’s annual parade. By Evelyn NievesLike many stories of its kind — migrants fleeing unbearable lives — this one begins at sea, with 60 people jammed like livestock headed to market in a dinghy best suited for six.What makes the journey of these immigrants from the Middle East and Northern Africa different from others is not the dangers they braved before a Spanish rescue crew spotted them last summer in the Mediterranean. Every day, migrants risk everything when they set sail for Europe — drowning, starvation, suffocation and, if they reach land, rejection, detention, even enslavement by traffickers.What makes this story unique is its happy ending, almost as if in a fairy tale.It began on June 30, when Proactiva Open Arms, a search-and-rescue nongovernmental organization in Spain, spotted the dinghy in waters near Libya. Denied a dock by Italy and Malta — most of Europe has cracked down on migrants crossing the Mediterranean — Proactiva Open Arms secured a port of entry in Barcelona.Olmo Calvo, a Madrid-based photographer who has spent more than a decade documenting migrants, was with Proactiva Open Arms when it found the migrants and photographed the rescue, as he has others. From the beginning, Mr. Calvo said, this group was charmed.They were afforded opportunities most migrants rescued at sea never receive, he said, including living quarters and help in seeking asylum. The usual end to migrants’ dreams, Mr. Calvo said, is “they are deported or live irregular lives for many years. What is sure is that they all have a very hard time trying to obtain residency and constructing a life with minimal dignity in Europe.”This group, which included five women and four children, was immediately assured acceptance. They were relocated to an immigrant reception center approximately 70 miles, or a little more than 110 kilometers, away from Barcelona, in a picturesque city called Reus. For six months, the refugees have had language classes in the morning and workshops in the afternoon to help them prepare to work and live independently.At a time when “illegal immigration” has become a political buzz saw — when the United States president is demanding $5.7 billion for a border wall and European states have agreed to reject migrants — Reus has replaced hostility with humanity.In a move that underscored the commitment to the newest residents, city officials were convinced by a social media campaign to invite several of the migrants to join their largest annual celebration, the Festival of the Three Kings, on Jan. 6, or Epiphany.That’s where Edu Bayer, a Barcelona-based freelance photographer, found this story’s extraordinary next chapter.Reus invited an African immigrant to play Balthazar, one of the three kings, or Magi, who took gifts to baby Jesus in the manger, and others to play his assistants. Balthazar, considered by Western church tradition to be the King of Arabia, and a Moor, has traditionally been played in blackface in Spain.“In Spain, it is a big honor to be invited to be a king in the Three Kings Parade,” said Mr. Bayer, who knew he wanted to document this occasion. “Nowadays, it is a multitudinous tradition and deeply rooted throughout Spain. Inviting recently arrived African refugees is a unique case in a major town in Spain.”The festival, as his photos show, was a joyous crush of celebrants. The Africans, Mr. Bayer said, “were ecstatic and told me they wanted to do it again next year.”When Mr. Calvo, a friend, showed him photos from the Open Arms rescue six months earlier, Mr. Bayer was struck by one man: Honoré Becha, a father of four from Cameroon who left for work in 2014, only to be kidnapped, tortured and enslaved for four years before he managed to escape. He was the same man chosen to play Balthazar.Mr. Bayer said he saw Mr. Becha “acting as a leader in a small rubber boat in the middle of the ocean. That vision was crazy, to see how a person’s character makes its way into such opposite situations.”Two weeks after the Three Kings celebration, the Spanish government seized the boat used to rescue the 60 migrants. It grounded the boat for not taking rescued migrants to ports closer to their rescue point, Italy or Malta, though both countries have refused to let the boat dock.Mr. Bayer said he wanted to document a positive immigration story entwined with Spain’s most hallowed holiday.“For me,” he said, “seeing that and remembering the situation in the rescue mission was a revelation of the incredible plot twists that life may have.”Follow @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.President Trump agreed to open the government for three weeks amid continuing border-wall negotiations, but he insisted that he hadn’t backed down from any of his demands. Stephen Colbert said on Monday that the president’s approach seemed less like a strategy and more like recalcitrance. Or worse.“His heels are completely dug in. When asked if he would accept less than $5.7 billion for his wall, Trump said: ‘I doubt it.’ So just to be clear, he’s making the exact same offer backed by the exact same threat, but somehow he expects different results. Well, you know what they say: The definition of insanity is Donald Trump.” — STEPHEN COLBERTColbert poked fun at Trump for insisting on Twitter that he wasn’t conceding anything by reopening the government.“And believe me, folks, I know races. Many people call me a race-ist.” — STEPHEN COLBERTWhile he was on the topic of Trump’s tweets, Colbert pointed to one in which the president claimed, without apparent proof, that illegal immigration had already this year cost the country nearly $19 billion — and he gave the figure down to the dollar.“Those are some really specific numbers. In fact, that tweet — do I have this correct? — that tweet scores exactly 4,394.907 on my bullcrapometer.” — STEPHEN COLBERTThe former Starbucks chief executive Howard Schultz announced over the weekend that he might run for president in 2020. The news was not met with much enthusiasm — and that includes on late-night TV. Colbert said that after two years of Trump, he was not eager to hand the presidency to another C.E.O.“To all the billionaires threatening to run for president: No thanks. We’re too full for seconds!” — STEPHEN COLBERT“They need new hobbies. I tell you what, can’t Richard Branson just build a day camp for these guys to keep them off the streets?” — STEPHEN COLBERT“I heard that former Starbucks C.E.O. Howard Schultz is thinking about running for president. Meanwhile, the C.E.O. of Dunkin’ Donuts is thinking about running a meth lab out of every store.” — JIMMY FALLON“So it would be Mr. Pumpkin Spice Latte taking on an actual pumpkin spice latte.” — TREVOR NOAH, showing a picture of Howard Schultz next to a picture of President TrumpJames Corden had a cynical take on a report by Tinder that it sees its highest number of users in the middle of January.“Researchers at Tinder have released some interesting user information, and it’s particularly appropriate for tonight. Apparently, the most popular time to use the dating app is right now, in January, and particularly on Monday evenings. Yeah, in winter, after the holidays, on a Monday. So literally when you’re at your most depressed.” — JAMES CORDEN“The most popular time of the day to use Tinder is apparently 9 p.m. And by the way, the most popular time to completely give up on love forever is 9:02 p.m.” — JAMES CORDEN“According to The Washington Post, when President Trump gives tours of the White House and shows people the Lincoln Bedroom, he remarks how tall Lincoln was and how small the bed is. Said Trump, ‘That proves he used to sleep like me — in a fetal position, and crying!’” — SETH MEYERS“Howard Schultz could be running for president in 2020. Or as they call it at Starbucks, venti venti.” — STEPHEN COLBERTEvery so often, Jimmy Kimmel uses some sleight of ear to make Washington sound a lot more risqué than it is.It is not for us to ask why Abraham Lincoln and Shrek are sharing a milkshake. We can only sit and wonder if Shaquille O’Neal will figure out what they’re doing without seeing them.Viola Davis just debuted “Two Sides,” a new documentary mini-series on TV One examining watershed moments in the history of confrontation between law enforcement officers and the black community. She’ll speak to Jimmy Kimmel on Tuesday.What was supposed to be a live broadcast of “Rent” went awry when the lead actor injured his foot in dress rehearsal. (Fallon, on “The Tonight Show,” joked: “The actor’s fine, but doctors say he’s got to wear a cast for about 525,600 minutes.”) The solution? Air a recorded dress rehearsal instead. Our critic grappled with how to review something we weren’t really supposed to see.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The Best Movies and TV Shows New to Netflix, Amazon and More in JanuaryThe 20 Best TV Dramas Since ‘The Sopranos’Seven TV Shows That Are Perfect for MultitaskingAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam Jordan and Ben ProtessPresident Trump’s family business has employed undocumented workers more broadly than it was previously believed, with multiple workers losing their jobs last month at a Trump golf club in southern New Jersey.The club in Pine Hill, N.J., known as the Trump National Golf Club Philadelphia, was the third Trump property where undocumented workers have been fired since The New York Times reported in December that the Trump club in Bedminster, N.J., for years employed immigrants who were in the country unlawfully.The president’s company terminated about a dozen undocumented workers at the Bedminster property after the article was published, as well as a dozen workers at the Trump National Golf Club Westchester, in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.People familiar with the terminations at Pine Hill said that about five workers at that property were fired or told not to report to work again, including two seasonal employees who were not scheduled to work until the spring. One of the people familiar with the matter said that many other seasonal workers expected to be told not to return in the coming weeks.The revelations about the undocumented workers has been an embarrassment for the Trump Organization, coming to light as Mr. Trump has railed against illegal immigration, blamed undocumented immigrants for crime and pledged to build a wall along the Mexican border to keep more people from entering the country unlawfully.The company has said it was duped by employees who used false identification to get their jobs. But some of the workers in Bedminster told The Times they were kept on the payroll despite the fact that management was aware of the false documents.A spokesperson for the company declined to comment on Friday.The workers at the Pine Hill property said their terminations, which occurred in January, came abruptly.“Just like that, I got fired,” said Victor Reyes, who is from Mexico and worked in the kitchen alongside the chef.“The manager called me and asked, ‘Victor, are you legal?’ I said, ‘No, I am not legal.’ It surprised me because I knew he knew that I was illegal. I have worked for him 16 years and then he asks me,” said Mr. Reyes, who added that it was his first job since crossing the border.Mr. Reyes had worked up from a dishwasher to grilling steaks and preparing a la carte orders, he said, and acquired many cooking skills along the way.The firings at the Pine Hill golf club were the result of a broader audit that the Trump Organization is conducting at its properties across the country, according to people briefed on the review. Although the organization has conducted similar reviews in prior years, this is the largest effort yet to ensure that the company’s employees are authorized to work in the country.The review has presented yet another legal and public relations headache for company executives who are trying to contain the fallout from the revelations. It comes as the Trump Organization is facing wider scrutiny from congressional Democrats examining the company’s business practices.At this point in the review, the issues appear to have been largely concentrated in the Bedminster and Westchester golf clubs, the people said, though the discovery of undocumented workers at the southern New Jersey property show that the matter is more widespread than initially believed. The terminations at the Westchester club were first reported by The Washington Post.The Trump Organization announced on Tuesday that it was using a system — known as E-verify — to prevent undocumented workers from getting jobs at its properties. For the last several years, the company had utilized that system in many of its hotel properties, though it did not adopt it at most of the golf courses.“I must say, for me personally, this whole thing is truly heartbreaking,” Eric Trump, an executive vice president with the Trump Organization, said in a statement on Tuesday. “Our employees are like family, but when presented with fake documents, an employer has little choice.”He said that hiring undocumented immigrants was not a problem unique to the Trump Organization, and that it “demonstrates that our immigration system is severely broken and needs to be fixed immediately.”About eight million undocumented workers participate in the United States labor force, and it is an open secret that they use fake documents to get hired, typically made-up social security numbers and permanent residency cards.The Pine Hill club has an 18-hole golf course surrounded by maple and pine trees on 365 acres. Members enjoy putting greens and a 43,000-square-foot clubhouse where weddings and other events take place. Sitting atop a hill, it boasts a view of the Philadelphia skyline.The golf club employs 100 to 200 people, many of them in seasonal jobs. Immigrants employed there were charged with watering, mowing and manicuring the greens; the upkeep of the banquet hall, which has a 300-person capacity; and preparing food in the club’s restaurant.Because the workers do not have lawyers and remain in the country illegally, two of those who described the firings, as well as their family members, declined to be named.Workers said that those who were terminated were summoned to a meeting with Eric Quinn, the general manager, and a human-resources executive who they believed was from the Trump Organization. Each was told that their documents did not pass inspection after an audit and that they should leave the premises immediately, leaving some of the workers who lacked driver’s licenses to scramble to find rides home.“People were getting fired on the spot, no warning, no nothing. No time to find a job,” said one worker, who declined to be named.The worker said that the immigrants had been treated well by the club’s management and that some of them had broken down when they were fired. “It’s not easy to find a job if you don’t have papers, after you worked there,” the worker said. The general manager, according to several accounts, was said to have lamented the terminations.Executives at the Pine Hill club declined to comment.The problem of undocumented workers at Trump properties came to light in December, when The Times wrote about Victorina Morales of Guatemala, a housekeeper at the Bedminster property who made the president’s bed, washed his clothes and dusted his golf trophies for five years. After Mr. Trump was elected, a manager told her that her fake documents had expired and helped her acquire new ones.Ms. Morales said that on the advice of her lawyer, she stopped going to work on Dec. 4, two days before The Times article was published. The lawyer, Anibal Romero, has said that neither he nor his client had been notified that she was fired, and that her employment status was not clear.Ms. Morales, who is protected from deportation because she applied for asylum, was invited by her Democratic congresswoman, Bonnie Watson Coleman, to attend the State of the Union address on Tuesday. Also attending will be Sandra Diaz, a native of Costa Rica and a legal resident of the United States who said she was undocumented when she worked at the Trump resort. She will be the guest of Representative Jimmy Gomez, a California Democrat.Another undocumented worker, Emma Torres, told The Times that someone in human resources at the Bedminster club had removed her name and other undocumented workers’ names from a list of employees submitted to the Secret Service in 2017. Ms. Torres quit shortly after on her own volition.At Pine Hill, Mr. Reyes said that he was treated well by Mr. Quinn, the general manager, and expressed gratitude for the opportunity to grow professionally during his years at the golf club, where his hard work was recognized, he said. Over the years, on the job his repertoire of dishes grew and he learned English.“I had too many raises,” said the immigrant from Puebla, who said that he earned $18 an hour. The money enabled him to pay his rent and send money to his family back in Mexico.He received his first bonus in all his years working at the club, he said, in late December. In hindsight, Mr. Reyes wonders whether that was because management knew that he would not be welcome back after the winter hiatus.Now, he said, he is seething with a sense of betrayal.“I loved my job. I learned to cook everything. They helped me grow,” he said, erupting in tears. “Now I feel bad. I don’t trust nobody.”Mr. Trump, who during his campaign called Mexicans “rapists” and “criminals,” has made border security and protecting jobs for Americans cornerstones of his presidency. His commitment to erecting a border wall resulted in the recent partial government shutdown.He has deemed illegal immigration “a major, major problem,” and his administration has intensified workplace raids and payroll audits at companies suspected of employing undocumented workers.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del RealEL CENTRO, Calif. — Donald Trump was on the television, but no matter. Ferdinando Galeana’s customers were watching their plates, not the president.As Mr. Trump delivered an ominous State of the Union address from Washington, which warned repeatedly about the dangers along the southwest border, Mr. Galeana dutifully tended to orders of tacos, horchata and micheladas at D’Poly, the Mexican eatery his family runs here about 10 miles from the Mexican border. What the president was saying on the screen behind him, said Mr. Galeana, would not help his small business, his family or his five dozen employees.“What we need here is someone to help people looking for jobs,” said Mr. Galeana, whose wife and American-born children work with him at the restaurant. “The things he says, they make me laugh.”Residents of El Centro and several other towns along the California-Mexico border have watched with curiosity and apprehension in recent years as the president has escalated his calls for a wall along the southwest frontier. Mr. Trump repeated his warnings about such perils again Tuesday.“Republicans and Democrats must join forces again to confront an urgent national crisis,” Mr. Trump said during his speech, delivered not long after a bitter impasse over funding for a border wall that shut down the government for 35 days. “Congress has 10 days left to pass a bill that will fund our government, protect our homeland, and secure our very dangerous southern border.”[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]On a busy Tuesday night at D’Poly, patrons occasionally glanced at the screen that played the president’s address to the nation. Most paid it no mind at all. Mr. Galeana and others said they had largely tuned out what the president has to say because, too often, his rhetoric is disconnected from what their communities really want. They have struggled to reconcile the president’s warnings about threatening conditions on the border with their own experiences living in this quiet, largely agricultural hamlet.“What he’s saying on the news is different from what we’re seeing here,” said Cecy Magallanes, 45, who is originally from Mexicali, not far across the border in Mexico, and works as a school bus driver.She said Mr. Trump’s previous calls for a border wall seemed “like a strategy to get votes.”“His wall — always his wall,” added Cesar Salas, Ms. Magallanes’s husband, shaking his head.Located on El Centro’s Main Street, D’Poly and its clientele embody the biculturalism of border towns across the Southwest. Farm workers, white-collar professionals, big families and off-duty Border Patrol agents congregate here for tacos, sopes and flavored juices. Modern and minimalist, the restaurant’s gray walls and dark wood floors could be the backdrop of an elegant Crate and Barrel photo shoot — save for an arresting pink mural of Frida Kahlo that instantly sets the room apart. Flashes of pastel pop from behind a tiled bar, which includes a display of “Dia de los Muertos” statuettes.[Read: State of the Union Fact Check: What Trump Got Right and Wrong]English and Spanish are heard virtually interchangeably at table after table. Latin pop plays in the background, songs like “Dónde Estarás” by the Mexican electrocumbia musician Raymix.Mr. Galeana, who owns the restaurant along with his wife, Teresa, said he and his family decorated with the idea of showcasing Mexican culture in a modern setting, a concept that “so often is lost” in Mexican restaurants in favor of stereotypical décor like sombreros.“Our idea was to show that Mexico is not just what the stereotypes say: It’s so much more,” he said. “We are proud of our culture, and we want to show that.”That is what many of those here say they wish the president understood: Immigration and cross-national exchanges are celebrated in these towns along the border.Hildy Carrillo, the executive director of the Calexico Chamber of Commerce, has been sharply critical of President Trump’s immigration policies. She watched with exasperation last year when Mr. Trump called the replacement of the town’s border barrier “the start of our Southern Border WALL!” She said she feared the president’s remark would turn Calexico into an anti-immigration symbol and make it seem unsafe.For that reason, Ms. Carrillo, a Democrat, chose not to watch the speech Tuesday — “one of the few I’ve ever missed,” she said. She went shopping instead, she said, because “I refuse to get stressed out having to listen to him.”Such frustrations are frequently expressed in towns along the southwest border, which spans nearly 2,000 miles from California to Texas. Public officials from El Paso took to social media after Tuesday night’s speech to accuse the president of intentionally misleading the public after he said a border barrier had turned around high crime rates in the city. “Simply put, walls work and walls save lives,” Mr. Trump said.“He lies. @POTUS is once again lying and using the #SOTU address to spread falsehoods about our beloved city of El Paso,” Representative Veronica Escobar, a Democrat who represents El Paso, said on Twitter.A fact check by The El Paso Times on the matter, prepared in January but circulated heavily again on Tuesday night, found the city’s crime rate peaked in 1993, but by 2006 had sharply declined to its lowest level in decades. Construction on the border fence that Mr. Trump appeared to reference began in 2008.The paper also pointed out that, before the Bush-era fence was approved, El Paso and Ciudad Juárez had been separated by a border barrier for decades.Before the speech on Tuesday, Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, a Democrat, denounced “the president’s charade of border fear-mongering” and ordered the withdrawal of most National Guard troops stationed at the border in her state.Many people living along the border, including Mexican immigrants, say they understand the desire for strong border security. But in conversations here in El Centro on Tuesday, even those who agreed with some of the president’s positions were quick to point out that his statements about immigrants, and Mexicans in particular, made them disinclined to support him.Aleyda Montejano, 21, who is Mexican-American, lives in the town of Imperial but goes to hairstyling school in Mexicali because it is less expensive. She said that she agreed with the president that there needed to be a deterrent to illegal immigration. But she said that message was difficult to separate from his tone.“The way he talks about Mexicans, I just don’t agree with it,” she said. “The reason people come here is to have a better life. But, about the border, there are some people that cross illegally and that’s not right.”Brian Arturo Posada, 19, an American citizen who grew up in Mexicali, said that he was sympathetic to some of the things Republicans in Washington talk about, like preventing abuse of social benefits such as unemployment insurance. But he said the president’s tone in past speeches too frequently crossed the line when he talked about immigrants and Mexican laborers.“The only thing that really I didn’t like was when he said all Mexicans are gangsters,” he said. “That’s not true, it’s not true. And when he was keeping those kids in jails, that made me really mad.”Meanwhile, several Mexican laborers in the region said they fear that the president’s warnings about immigrants and crime exacerbates discrimination against them.Cristina Bejarano, 34, a Mexican laborer who picks cilantro and lives in Calexico, about 12 miles south of El Centro, said that life for her and other immigrants in the region can be difficult because of the nature of farm work. But she said she moved to the United States two years ago because, even if farm labor is backbreaking, her life and prospects are better here than in Mexico.She said she wished President Trump and others could understand that.“A lot of people haven’t had a chance to meet any Mexicans,” Ms. Bejarano said. “They say we’re all criminals when we’re not. Just because we’re brown doesn’t mean we’re dirty.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBuilding a border wall won’t solve our immigration problem.By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistThe debate around a border wall and immigration has become so distorted by President Trump’s superheated nonsense — we must build a wall to keep out all these rapists and murderers, and Mexico will pay for it — that we’ve forgotten what it would sound like if we actually had a president framing the real border issue in a really honest way to come up with a real solution — not just one to energize his base.Unfortunately, we have a president who wants to spend $5.7 billion on a wall to fix his political problems with Rush Limbaugh, Ann Coulter and Laura Ingraham. When what we need is a president who wants to spend $5.7 on a multipronged strategy that will address the actual immigration challenge we face.Here is how a real president would explain it: My fellow Americans, we face a global crisis: More people are on the move today seeking jobs, asylum from murderous governments, safety from environmental disasters or just looking for order than at any time since World War II — some 70 million people.Why now? Answer: During the late 19th and the 20th centuries the world shifted from being governed by large empires in many regions to being governed by independent nation-states. And the 50 years after World II were a great time to be a weak little nation-state — for several reasons.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]First, because there were two superpowers competing for your affection by throwing foreign aid at you, building your army, buying your cheap goods and educating your kids at their universities. Second, climate change was moderate. Third, populations were still under control in the developing world. Fourth, no one had a cellphone to easily organize movements against your government or even see what Paris or Phoenix looked like. Fifth, China was not in the World Trade Organization, so every poor country could be in textiles and other low-wage industries.All of those advantages disappeared in the early 21st century. Climate-driven extreme weather — floods, droughts, record-setting heat and cold — on top of man-made deforestation began to hammer many countries, especially their small-scale farmers. Developing-world populations exploded thanks to improved health care. Africa went from 140 million people in 1900 to one billion in 2010 to a projected 2.5 billion by 2050. The same surge happened in Central America, in countries like Guatemala.Meanwhile, the smartphone enabled citizens to easily compare their living standards with Paris or Phoenix — and find a human trafficker app to take them there. Also, China joined the W.T.O., gobbling up low-wage industries, and the end of the Cold War meant no superpower wanted to touch your country, because all it would win was a bill.The result: It’s much harder to be a weak country today, and the weakest of them are starting to fail or fracture and hemorrhage their people. That’s Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador and Venezuela in our hemisphere and Sudan, Syria, Afghanistan, Libya and many countries in sub-Saharan Africa across the Atlantic.This is creating wide zones of “disorder” — and the biggest geopolitical trend in the world is all the people trying to get out of zones of disorder into the world of order. And that is what’s creating all the populist, nationalist, anti-immigrant backlashes in the world of order — particularly in America and Europe.That is the real context for this immigration crisis. What’s the answer? Well, if you look at what slowed the flood of single Mexican men illegally and legally coming to America in the last decade, it was the combination of greater economic opportunity in Mexico, thanks in part to Nafta, plus slower population growth in Mexico, plus improved governance in Mexico, plus better border security along the Mexico-U.S. border.That same formula has to be applied now to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador. They have become the primary source of all those migrants and caravans coming to America today, including 187,000 minors without adult guardians, who were picked up by the U.S. Border Patrol between 2014 and 2018. Their parents sent them our way to connect with relatives already here or to be shielded from forced gang recruitment and violence.A report last June by the Council on Foreign Relations noted, “In 2015, the latest year for which data is available, as many as 3.4 million people born in El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras were living in the United States, more than double the estimated 1.5 million people in 2000.” Because of rampant corruption and gang warfare, Salvadorans, Hondurans and Guatemalans each year pay an estimated total of $651 million in extortion to organized crime groups. These gangs, like MS-13, exploded in Central America in the mid-1990s “following large-scale deportations from the United States of undocumented immigrants with criminal records.”That’s why, among other things, a smart U.S. immigration policy would promote family planning in rural areas in Central America. Letting America’s religious right limit U.S. family planning assistance abroad is stupid. The only thing more stupid is not working to mitigate climate change, which Trump refuses to do. Extreme weather has been disrupting small-scale farming in Central America. And when small-scale farming weakens or collapses, people leave the countryside and flock to the city. And if they find high unemployment and high crime rates there, they head to America.At the same time, we need an investment shock by local and foreign companies and governments to build infrastructure, tourism and trade in Central America so more people can thrive there, especially when 61 percent of the population is under 29 years of age.Alas, though, investment rates average just 12 percent of G.D.P. in Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, while in Mexico it’s 26 percent.Yes, both legal and illegal immigrants actually contribute, on balance, to American growth, but there is no question that border security, asylum courts, resettlement and absorption facilities put pressure on federal, state and local governments. But …The U.S. could spend millions of dollars to help stabilize Central American countries — so that more of their citizens could stay home, which most immigrants prefer — and we’d still save money and reduce illegal immigration. It costs us anywhere from $14,000 to $38,000 to detain and deport a single migrant.Finally, we also need fences, drones and sensors to strengthen the border in places. But rather than building a $5.7 billion wall against Mexico, what we need most is to help Mexico improve its capacity to intercept migrants at its southern border with Guatemala — where all Central American migrants headed north have to pass. It’s not that hard. There are only two main roads out of Guatemala to the north, with a mountain in the middle. It’s called Mexico’s “Tehuantepec isthmus bottleneck.”If we worked with Mexico to create better entry-point infrastructure there with biometric controls and improved ability to inspect vehicles, people and merchandise to stop smugglers — and even interview potential asylum seekers there — we would significantly reduce the numbers coming out of Central America, crossing Mexico and piling up at our border.In sum, we need a plan that creates a wall, not a wall that substitutes for a plan. That’s what a real president would offer. If only we had one.But have no illusions: More weak nation-states will be imploding under these pressures in the coming decade and no empire is going to impose order there; those days are long gone. But many of these states simply cannot effectively govern themselves any longer. (Heck, Britain can’t effectively govern itself any longer!)So how the world of order collaborates to bring order to more and more of these places — Italy has basically created and funded the Libyan Coast Guard to protect itself from migrants crossing the Mediterranean — is going to become one of the biggest governing challenges of this century.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jason HorowitzPALERMO, Sicily — Italy’s populist interior minister, Matteo Salvini, celebrated Parliament’s passage of his Security Decree to crack down on illegal immigration by assuring his supporters last year that “I won’t stop!”But stopping Mr. Salvini is exactly what Leoluca Orlando, the mayor of Palermo, the Sicilian capital, wants to do.Passed with much fanfare late last year, Mr. Salvini’s Security Decree was intended to make Italy more unwelcoming to migrants, not least by doing away with two years of “humanitarian protection” for asylum seekers, a status that allowed them to live in the country legally.Far from adding to security, says Mr. Orlando, 71, a veteran mayor and constitutional law professor who came to prominence in the fight against the mafia, the law risks pushing migrants into the shadows and the criminal underworld by denying them legal status as well as access to health care and other social services.He has refused to apply the decree in a stand that has become a prominent part of a widening grass-roots resistance to Mr. Salvini’s hard line on immigration, which is increasingly dividing the country even as it has tightened the populist government’s hold on power.On Friday afternoon, in defiance of the law, Mr. Orlando pushed through the first four applications by migrants seeking residency under their humanitarian status.By signing their applications, Mr. Orlando hopes to invite a legal challenge by the government that he can take all the way to Italy’s highest court. He intends to argue that Mr. Salvini’s measures are unconstitutional and violate the migrants’ human rights.“I cannot accept that you produce criminality,” Mr. Orlando said in an interview last month in his grand office, surrounded by gilded Islamic manuscripts, a letter from Pope Francis and a paperweight of the Dalai Lama.Many liberal mayors across the country, from Naples to Florence to Milan, applauded Mr. Orlando’s intention to defy the government, which he first announced at the end of December.Mr. Orlando’s office now hopes his action will clear the way for the mayors to create Italian versions of the sanctuary cities that sprouted in the United States in opposition to President’s Trump’s similarly minded crackdown on immigration.This week, Tuscany, Umbria, Sardinia and the northern region of Piedmont filed a legal complaint against the Security Decree, charging that it actually increased criminal activity and decreased the possibility of economic integration.In a further knock on the government, prosecutors in Sicily initiated an investigation of Mr. Salvini on charges of “kidnapping,” after his refusal to allow an Italian Coast Guard ship carrying migrants to dock this summer.In the absence of plausible political opposition at the national level, some have welcomed the signs of resistance against the government led by Mr. Salvini’s anti-immigrant League and the anti-establishment Five Star Movement.“There are many little outbreaks that have failed to form in a single flame,” said Claudio Cerasa, the author of a manual on resistance to Italy’s culture of intolerance and the editor of Il Foglio, a newspaper critical of the government.But the flickers of resistance have only inflamed Mr. Salvini, who clearly thinks he has a winning position ahead of critical European Parliament elections in May. He continues to find evermore inventive ways to ratchet up his crack down on illegal migration.Mr. Salvini has embraced the investigation aimed at him as an opportunity to play the victim of overreaching magistrates. He has already attacked the civilly disobedient mayors as scofflaws who “help the illegal migrants hate Italians, and they will answer to the law and to history.’’‘‘I will not stop,” he pledged.Indeed, last month, Mr. Salvini refused to offer a safe port to the Sea Watch 3, a vessel that had rescued 47 migrants from the Mediterranean Sea. For nearly two weeks, the ship was adrift as Mr. Salvini spoke of forming a “naval blockade” to seal off the country.The standoff ended on Thursday, only after European neighbors agreed to take in the majority of the migrants, who disembarked in another Sicilian city, Catania.The repeating loop of ships approaching Italy with rescued migrants, only to be turned away by Mr. Salvini, has given the tough-talking interior minister a seemingly inexhaustible well of talking points and advantageous television footage.“I guarantee that our position will not change: Zero Tolerance” Mr. Salvini posted on Twitter Thursday, adding later that millions of Italians “voted for me to BLOCK THE LANDINGS.”Mr. Orlando accused Mr. Salvini of fear-mongering and “using the banner of security to get votes in the next European election.”His decision, which his office said is based on his reading of Italian law, breaks a bureaucratic impasse with city workers who, unlike him, were loath to defy Mr. Salvini’s decree. It sets off a process that will likely result this month in the mayor personally granting residency to the applicants.“This is the first concrete act of opposition,” said Mr. Orlando, who is eager for Italy’s highest court to rule on Mr. Salvini’s law. “I need a court!”In the meantime, migrants around Italy are feeling the pressure.“I don’t know what to do,” Saha Abdul, 21, a migrant from Ghana, said as he shopped in the Ballarò market in the center of Palermo. He said he had tried to renew his documents to gain residency in Italy, but was told the decree made that impossible.“I’m already on the street. Everything is in my bag — water, food,’’ he lamented. ‘‘I get no help. It will push people to do what people don’t want to do.”At the University of Palermo, a group of 10 lawyers and law students offered free counsel to migrants thrown in disarray by the new decree. Outside of a classroom, lawyers worked off a call list with the names Sakko, Konate, Camara and Bolul.Migrants who arrived in Italy as minors — attending Italian schools, learning the language and integrating in their cities — often counted on the humanitarian status to remain in Italy when they came of age. Instead, many risked suddenly becoming illegal as they turned 18.Alieu Sosseh, 17, said his application for a residency permit had been postponed until later this month.“I don’t know why. I’m not trying to do something bad in this country. I have been going to school,” he said, worried that people in his situation will eventually be forced to start dealing drugs.“In life when you can’t get your meals — your breakfast — and that is the only opportunity, you can get involved in that thing,’’ he said. ‘‘You won’t like it, but you have no choice.”Mr. Salvini’s critics say that is exactly the outcome he desires. By producing more migrant crime, they say, he produces more anxiety and fear, exactly the conditions on which his law-and-order proposals feed.But Mr. Salvini argues that the mayors and other liberals are simply making excuses for migrants, who they prefer over law-abiding Italian citizens.Acting on the authority of Mr. Salvini’s Security Decree, the police last week cleared out an integration center in Castelnuovo di Porto, north of Rome. Mr. Salvini said the closure of such centers, where about 6,000 refugee applicants across the country receive shelter, would save the state about six million euros.Mr. Salvini pledged to carry out a similar evacuation of an even larger center in Sicily later this year.Such moves continue to divide Italians. The mayor of Castelnuovo di Porto expressed disgust with Mr. Salvini and took in a Somali woman. Other residents rallied around children who attended the local school and a 19-year-old Senegalese striker for the local soccer team.Mr. Orlando had supported the Sea Watch, the rescue vessel that landed Thursday, and even gave its crew a Palermo flag before they set sail. Residents in the Sicilian town Syracuse, outside of which the Sea Watch lingered, hung white sheets from their balconies reading “Let Them Dock,” and some families offered to take migrants in.Mr. Orlando is hoping that he, and the mayors who followed his lead, had at least sparked something in the country.“I played my role,” he said. “I hope I will not remain isolated and everyone will ask, ‘In my field, what can I do to be concretely against this?’”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanAs President Trump delivered his State of the Union address on Tuesday, two guests sitting in the gallery and listening closely were immigrants he has long known. They cleaned Mr. Trump’s cottage at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J., despite lacking legal status in the United States.Victorina Morales and Sandra Diaz were among some 20 immigrants, many of them facing possible deportation, on the list of guests seated in the secure gallery for the annual address.Even as the president wrapped his speech in a theme of national unity, he made immigration — his signature issue — central to it, as divisive as it may be. His determination to build a wall along the southern border led recently to a 35-day government shutdown, and ahead of the next government funding deadline, on Feb. 15, there is still no deal in sight.“I never imagined I would set foot in such an important place,” Ms. Morales, 46, a native of Guatemala who worked at Mr. Trump’s golf resort for five years, said after the speech. “I was an immigrant representing many immigrants in this country who don’t want to show their faces because of what the president says. I was there for the 11 million undocumented.”Ms. Diaz, 47, a native of Costa Rica who is now a legal resident of the United States, said she “felt like Cinderella” attending the speech. But sitting in full view of the Trump family, whom she had seen frequently at Bedminster, and seeing the president deliver his address, she said, she had hoped he would have kinder words for undocumented immigrants.“It was hard to be face to face with him and realize he didn’t change his position, especially for those of us who helped his businesses prosper,” she said. “I had the trust to be inside his home and serve him.”[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]But the two former housekeepers, invited by a pair of Democratic lawmakers, represent just one side of the fractious immigration debate: Among those Mr. Trump invited were a daughter, a granddaughter and a great-granddaughter of Gerald and Sharon David, a Nevada couple killed in their home last month. An immigrant from Central America who was believed to be in the country illegally has been charged in the case.Republican lawmakers chose guests whose experiences they believe bolstered their calls for a crackdown on illegal immigration and fortification of the southern border.Michael C. Burgess, a Republican lawmaker from Texas, hosted Chris Odette, whose daughter, Chrishia, 13, was struck and killed as she was crossing the street in 2014 by a vehicle driven by an undocumented immigrant who had no driver’s license. The driver was freed on bail and evaded immigration authorities when they went to arrest him, said Mr. Odette, a resident of Rockwall, Tex.“It is important to me to hear that the president is doing something to address the immigration issue,” Mr. Odette said. “People who keep trying to block it don’t seem to care because they are not touched by the loss.”Senator Marsha Blackburn and Representative Tim Burchett, both Tennessee Republicans, invited the parents of Pierce Corcoran, 22, who died in a head-on vehicle collision in December with an undocumented immigrant in the Knoxville area.Also among the Republican invitees were leaders of the United States Border Patrol union, which has been a staunch backer of the president and his plan for a wall on the border.Democratic lawmakers, for their part, hosted immigrants who have been targeted by the Trump administration’s more vigorous immigration enforcement policies, including mothers separated from their children under the “zero-tolerance” border policy, which was suspended in late June amid widespread public outrage.Albertina Contreras and Yakelin Garcia, a Guatemalan mother and daughter invited by Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon, were separated at the border on May 24 and were unable to communicate for more than a month before being reunited on July 12. Having fled domestic violence, they are living in Murfreesburo, Tenn., while they fight in court to remain in the United States.“I want to live here and get papers. It is a privilege to be here,” said Yakelin, who wore a black-and-white dress and a matching blazer for the occasion, which coincided with her 12th birthday.Gerald Michaud, 47, has been living in Brooklyn under Temporary Protected Status since an earthquake ravaged his native Haiti in 2010. The T.P.S. program enables him to live and work in the United States, but the Trump administration has moved to cancel the program later this year for Haitians, Salvadorans and others.“I am proud to represent more than 300,000 immigrants who would like a permanent solution,” said Mr. Michaud, who is a wheelchair attendant at La Guardia Airport and teaches martial arts to at-risk youths. “We are afraid. I am working legally, which I cannot do if I lose T.P.S.”The State of the Union address has long been a platform for presidents to report on key issues and seek congressional support. This is not the first time that it has been used to make a statement about the nation’s lingering divisions over immigration. In 2016, President Barack Obama invited a Syrian refugee to his State of the Union address to send the message that refugees were not a threat to the country.But what will distinguish this year’s speech from past years’ is the sheer number of invitees whose immigration status is uncertain because of the president’s policies.The attorney general of California, Xavier Becerra, delivered the Democrats’ Spanish-language response to Mr. Trump’s address. That, too, focused in part on immigration. “Tonight was about convincing us that, from here on out, the deceit and dysfunction would stop and that cooperation would begin,” Mr. Becerra said. “What we heard was the same tired refrain of building walls.”As for Ms. Morales and Ms. Diaz, the former housekeepers at the president’s golf club, Tuesday night marked a first. Until recently, neither had been to Washington before, let alone attended a joint session of Congress. Their appearance began with an invitation to Ms. Morales from Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman of New Jersey.“This year, there is no issue more important than the way this administration is using immigrants as an excuse to build a wall that doesn’t work,” said Ms. Watson Coleman, who represents the district where Ms. Morales resides.In recent weeks, the two women have been meeting with members of Congress and aides all over Capitol Hill, hoping to spur an investigation into the difference between the president’s harsh words on immigration and his companies’ own hiring policies.“We wanted to highlight the hypocrisy of the administration,” said Jimmy Gomez, the Democratic congressman from Los Angeles who invited Ms. Diaz. “The president demonizes immigrants, documented and undocumented, and also relies heavily on them.”AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byBy Elisabeth MalkinMEXICO CITY — President Trump’s State of the Union speech hit hard on a topic that has dominated his term in office: defending the border with Mexico against what he described as migrants in “large organized caravans.”He also suggested that the Mexican authorities were encouraging the migrants to cross the border illegally.“We have just heard that Mexican cities, in order to remove the illegal immigrants from their communities, are getting trucks and buses to bring them up to our country in areas where there is little border protection,” Mr. Trump said in his speech Tuesday night.Some aspects of Mr. Trump’s assertions are true but others are unsubstantiated or distorted. There is no evidence, for example, that the Mexican authorities are sending migrants to weak points along the border.Migrants have said they have banded together in large groups, called caravans, because such groups help keep them safe from robberies and other dangers along the trek north through Mexico. But their size has drawn the president’s anger and made them one of his frequent targets.As the migrants from Central America have moved north through Mexico, city and state governments have sometimes provided transport with help from churches and local aid groups.Some small-town mayors opt to do this because they have limited resources, and it is easier to arrange transport than to house and feed several thousand people at a time. Some state governments provided this type of aid along parts of the route migrants traveled last October and November on their way to Tijuana, a busy border crossing station with the United States.The stated purpose of the action is humanitarian, and women and children are given priority when space is short.Mr. Trump was most likely referring to recent action taken by the state government of Coahuila, across the border from Texas. On Monday, Coahuila officials, with help from local businesses, provided buses for 1,700 members of a migrant caravan that left Honduras on Jan. 14.The state government posted on Twitter photos of Coahuila Gov. Miguel Riquelme meeting with migrants the night before their journey and then visiting a temporary shelter set up to receive the migrants in Piedras Negras, just across the border from Eagle Pass, Texas.The migrants were driven five hours from Arteaga, in southern Coahuila, to Piedras Negras, which has a population of more than 150,000 and does not fit the definition of a remote unprotected border area.There is no indication that the transport provided by cities or states is deliberately targeted at areas lacking border protection. On the contrary, the Mexican authorities prefer to help migrants reach border cities with adequate shelter space.Mexico’s federal government is not providing transport of any sort to migrants.In a statement on Tuesday, Kirstjen M. Nielsen, Mr. Trump’s homeland security secretary, said that the government was prepared for the caravan’s arrival.“Illegal entry will not be tolerated, and we stand ready to prevent it,” she said. “The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has been working with the departments of State, Defense and Justice to ensure all possible resources are available to address this lawless caravan.”Most of the migrants have said that they hope to apply for asylum in the United States through legal routes.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesA boat smuggling Haitian migrants has sunk off the Bahamas, leaving at least 28 dead and 17 others in police custody, officials said on Sunday.Chief Petty Officer Jonathan Rolle of the Royal Bahamas Defense Force said that residents of the island of Abaco had found four bodies and at least 15 survivors off the Bahamian coast on Saturday, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Rolle said the ship appeared to be an American vessel engaged in people-smuggling.By Sunday afternoon, local forces and the United States Coast Guard had found 28 bodies in and around a sunken ship, The A.P. said. The number of total rescued had risen to 17. The boat’s final destination was unclear.The American Embassy in Haiti described the accident in a tweet early on Monday morning as “another tragic loss of life” and said the vessel had been “trafficking people out of Haiti.”“No journey is worth risking lives,” the embassy said.The Bahamian authorities have apprehended about 300 Haitians for illegal entry this year, the Royal Bahamas Defense Force said in a statement on Saturday.In 2013, at least 30 Haitians who tried to sail to the United States were found drowned after their overloaded boat ran aground off the Bahamas and capsized. Fishermen had tipped off the local authorities about the 40-foot vessel days earlier, but the military was unable to conduct air searches because all three of its planes were out of service.Once the Coast Guard eventually deployed a helicopter, it found the boat in about an hour, about 20 miles from where the fishermen had first reported seeing it.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sandra E. GarciaUpdated Feb. 4Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials took the rapper 21 Savage into custody on Sunday for being in the United States illegally, according to an agency spokesman.21 Savage, whose real name is Sha Yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph, was arrested during an operation by federal and local law enforcement authorities in Atlanta, the spokesman, Bryan D. Cox, said in a statement.Mr. Abraham-Joseph is an “unlawfully present United Kingdom national” who legally entered the United States in 2005 but was supposed to leave the next year, according to the terms of his nonimmigrant visa, Mr. Cox said.[Is 21 Savage American? Our music critic weighs in.]In addition to being in the country unlawfully after 2006, Mr. Abraham-Joseph was convicted of felony drug charges in 2014 in Fulton County, Ga., the statement said.Mr. Abraham-Joseph faces deportation proceedings and was expected to appear before a federal immigration judge.“We are working diligently to get Mr. Abraham-Joseph out of detention while we work with the authorities to clear up any misunderstandings,” Dina LaPolt, Mr. Abraham-Joseph’s lawyer, said in a statement on Sunday night.In a statement on Monday, representatives of Mr. Abraham-Joseph said that he “has never hid his immigration status from the US government.”“As a minor, his family overstayed their work visas,” the statement said, and Mr. Abraham-Joseph “was left without legal status through no fault of his own.”His arrest came after he performed at the Super Bowl Music Fest at the State Farm Arena on Thursday.Mr. Abraham-Joseph has been nominated for a Grammy for Record of the Year for “Rockstar,” a song with the rapper Post Malone. Mr. Abraham-Joseph’s album “I Am > I Was” opened at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 in January. He is known for his flat delivery and subdued rap style.Mr. Abraham-Joseph has long maintained that he was from Atlanta. In August, he gave backpacks and games to children in Atlanta during an annual drive called Issa Back 2 School Drive.“Mr. Abraham-Joseph is a role model to the young people in this country, especially in Atlanta,” Ms. LaPolt said. She added that Mr. Abraham-Joseph was “actively working in the community leading programs to help underprivileged youths in financial literacy.”In a 2016 interview with VladTV, an urban news YouTube channel, Mr. Abraham-Joseph was asked where he grew up and he listed all the neighborhoods in Atlanta he had previously lived in.“I grew up on the East Side, Glenwood, Decatur,” Mr. Abraham-Joseph says. “I done grew up in all Atlanta really, everybody know me. If you don’t, you ain’t from this city.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Annie KarniWASHINGTON — President Trump plans to use his State of the Union address on Tuesday night to outline a bipartisan and optimistic vision of the country, a senior administration official said on Friday.It could be a difficult sell.In the past few weeks, as he has tried to navigate his way out of a political standoff with Democrats, Mr. Trump has ramped up his anti-immigration messaging, stormed out of meetings with Democratic leaders and refused to accept any compromise that does not ultimately include funding for a border wall.And while the White House said on Friday that the goal of the speech was to bring together a divided government and a divided nation, the official said immigration would emerge as the main theme.Mr. Trump is also expected to make an appeal to his evangelical anti-abortion base by talking about the “fundamental importance and respect for human life,” the official said. And he will focus a large portion of his remarks on the importance of ending illegal immigration.But the official, who refused to be identified according to the ground rules of the briefing, framed the speech as an opportunity to change the tone of the current political debate.“Together we can break decades of political stalemate,” Mr. Trump is expected to say, according to an excerpt from the speech shared by the official. “We can bridge old divisions, heal old wounds, build new coalitions, forge new solutions and unlock the extraordinary promise of America’s future. The decision is ours to make.”The overarching theme of the speech, the official said, will be “Choosing Greatness,” and it will focus on issues where there is a possibility of bipartisan consensus: infrastructure, lowering health care and prescription drug costs, protecting American workers affected by what he described as “decades of flawed trade deals” and safeguarding national security.The president will also call on Congress to replace what he described as the “Nafta disaster” with the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement and discuss the trading relationship with China.In his first State of the Union address last year, Mr. Trump also sought to strike a unifying tone that was a contrast to the political attacks and divisive messaging that he is better known for. But the promises in last year’s speech, including bringing Democrats and Republicans together behind a $1.5 trillion infrastructure plan, have not materialized, while the more contentious policies of his presidency have continued.This year, Mr. Trump will address the nation after a 35-day government shutdown caused by his insistence that Congress approve funding for the border wall. And although the president agreed to three weeks of negotiations to end the impasse, he said on Thursday that the talks are “a waste of time” and strongly hinted that he would declare a national emergency to bypass Congress and obtain wall funding.Mr. Trump suggested on Friday that he would announce his decision on declaring a national emergency during the State of the Union speech.“I don’t want to say,” he told reporters when asked if he was planning to do so. “You’ll hear the State of the Union and let’s see what happens,” he said.White House officials have been warning him against the action, but they also view it as a potential last-ditch exit ramp if they cannot find another face-saving solution.Last month, in the midst of the shutdown, Speaker Nancy Pelosi told the president she wanted to postpone the address, initially scheduled for Jan. 29, until after the government reopened, and suggested he deliver the speech in writing.Mr. Trump retaliated by grounding the military plane that was supposed to take Ms. Pelosi and other lawmakers on a fact-finding trip to Afghanistan. Then, when Mr. Trump pressed ahead, insisting he wanted to give the speech, Ms. Pelosi disinvited him. But this week she and the president agreed he would give the speech on Feb. 5.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byVoters want more open borders, not a ‘smart wall.’ Democrats should listen.By Daniel DenvirMr. Denvir is the author of the forthcoming “All-American Nativism.”The last government shutdown ended because Democrats stood firm against President Trump’s border wall. But funding will soon run out again, talks between Democrats and Republicans are in crisis, and Mr. Trump remains committed: “The Wall will get built one way or the other!” he tweeted on Saturday.The Senate’s minority leader, Chuck Schumer, has made it clear that Mr. Trump won’t get his way: “Democrats are against the wall.” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has admirably enforced party discipline, has called the wall “immoral.”Yet at the same time, Ms. Pelosi has emphasized that “Democrats are committed to border security.” She has critiqued the wall on the narrow grounds that government should instead employ “evidence-based knowledge about how we best secure our border.” James Clyburn, the majority whip, fleshed out what that might look like: a “smart wall,” including more Border Patrol agents. This, too, is immoral.It’s also bad politics. Democrats should follow their voters, who increasingly want more open borders, and reframe the immigration debate by rejecting the very notion that the border needs more “security” and making it clear that the real problem is the denial of migrants’ rights. The time has come for the Democratic Party to push for concrete policies to make the border more open.There is plainly no need for more security on the border. Illegal entries to the United States (as measured by Border Patrol apprehensions, which the government has long used as a proxy) began to fall at the turn of the century, and have plummeted since 2006. They remain at historic lows today. Those who are coming to the country are often Central Americans fleeing violence that United States policy in the region helped foment.And when it comes to drugs — a favorite justification of Mr. Trump’s for his wall — evidence shows that more “border security” does not stop trafficking. From the 1970s on, every crackdown on a drug-smuggling route, whether it was heroin via the French Connection or cocaine through the Caribbean, has only led to new innovations in the trade that have empowered murderous Mexican cartels. Some scholars even argue that the rise of fentanyl can be traced to drug interdiction.Then why, if there isn’t truly a crisis on the border, do the Democrats continue to invoke the need for more “border security”? Largely because the conversation about the border and immigration has moved so far to the right over the past 30 years. As the linguist George Lakoff and Sam Ferguson, his student at the time, wrote more than a decade ago, the narrow framing of the “immigration” debate “has shaped its politics, defining what count as ‘problems’” and, as a result, “constrains the solutions needed to address that problem.” When the “problem” is defined as “illegal immigration,” it becomes about “the illegal act of crossing the border without papers,” and so “the logical response to the ‘wave’ of ‘illegal immigration’ becomes ‘border security.’”Since Bill Clinton’s presidency, the Border Patrol has grown from 4,100 agents in fiscal year 1992 to more than 19,000 today. The United States has built hundreds of miles of border fencing since the 2006 Secure Fence Act, which Barack Obama, Joe Biden and Hillary Clinton voted for. “Well, I voted for border security, and some of it was a fence,” Mrs. Clinton feebly said in 2016 when pressed about the 2006 vote that within a decade had become controversial.Democrats have for far too long let their political opponents define the terms of debate. Now they’re doing it again: House Democrats’ proposal heading into the negotiations with Republicans didn’t include funding for new physical barriers or additional Border Patrol agents, but it did offer significantly increased funding for “border security technology.”That’s not only bad for immigrants who, as a result of militarized borders are more likely to be kidnapped, violently assaulted and driven to cross via the lethal desert. It’s also bad for Democrats, who are handing ammunition to the nativist right at a time when Republicans are on the back foot and polls show that Democratic voters are moving decidedly leftward on immigration and the border.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]Voters used to overwhelmingly favor less immigration, but opinions have changed fast amid an immigrant rights movement that took off in 2006 and partisan polarization driven by aggressive enforcement. In 1994, just 32 percent of Democrats and Democratic-leaning Americans and 30 percent of Republicans agreed that immigrants strengthened the country, according to the Pew Research Center. But by 2016, the share of Democrats who said so had skyrocketed to 78 percent. In 2006, 37 percent of Democrats said that immigration levels should be decreased, while only 20 percent said that it should be increased. In 2018, 40 percent said that it should be increased, with just 16 percent calling for restriction. The same trend has held on border politics: In 2010, 47 percent of Democrats said that they equally prioritized legalizing undocumented immigrants and “better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws,” while just 29 percent prioritized legalization alone. By 2018, the number prioritizing legalization alone skyrocketed to 51 percent.Under President Trump, polarization has accelerated — and that’s a good thing. The vanishing bipartisan consensus orchestrated mammoth deportations and militarized the border in the quixotic hope of placating the nativist right and winning it over to supporting immigration reform. This strategy only inflamed the right’s paranoiac ravings and helped move the goal posts to new extremes. Which is why we find ourselves, in 2019, with the possibility of beginning a second government shutdown over the wall.So, what should the Democrats pursue instead? A break with a failed bipartisan consensus.Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley and Rashida Tlaib, all Democrats who are new to the House, have drafted a letter urging opposition to any deal that increases Department of Homeland Security funding in any form. That’s a good start.The border must be demilitarized, which would include demolishing the already-existing wall and dramatically downsizing the Border Patrol. Criminal sanctions on illegal entry and re-entry must be repealed. Opportunities for legal immigration, particularly from Mexico and Central America, must be expanded. The right to asylum must be honored. And citizenship for those who reside here must be a stand-alone cause, unencumbered by compromises that are not only distasteful but also politically ineffectual — and that today would provoke opposition from the nativist right and the grass-roots left. If Democrats stick to the center on immigration, they will find themselves fighting on two fronts. A fight against Republicans, with the left at their back, will be far easier to win — and a more noble victory.Simple realism dictates that no legislation to grant citizenship to the millions of undocumented Americans who deserve it will be passed until the Republicans are defeated. There’s no use trying to appease them. The bipartisan consensus supporting harsh immigration and border enforcement has fractured. Democratic elected officials need to catch up.Daniel Denvir (@danieldenvir) is a visiting fellow at the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs at Brown University and the author of the forthcoming “All-American Nativism.” He also hosts “The Dig,” a podcast from Jacobin magazine.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesLeer en españolWelcome to Crossing the Border, a new limited-run weekly newsletter from The New York Times. Like what you see? Send this newsletter to a friend. If someone forwarded it to you, sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox. Crossing the border can be done in a rental car, inching northward from, say, the tumult of Tijuana. It can be done on foot, over the walkway that runs in a southern direction from Laredo, Tex., to Nuevo Laredo, Mexico. I spent four years as a reporter based in Mexico and two in Arizona, and I’ve stood on stretches of the border with one boot in one country and the companion in the other.With the border so much in the news these days, and with New York Times correspondents spending so much of their time crisscrossing back and forth, we figured we’d offer readers the chance to spend some time there, too.Follow along and you’ll get a more nuanced sense of the long line between Mexico and the United States. It’s neither as terrifying nor as trouble free as it’s portrayed.— MARC LACEY, National editorThere are no one-way signs at the border. Surging north are migrants, truck drivers, shoppers, smugglers and numerous others. Going the other way last week were two men in an old tan pickup truck.Following in a long tradition of Americans heading to Mexico in a hurry, the men, driving south out of Nogales, Ariz., made a swift and sudden run across the border. A Customs and Border Protection agent opened fire. The truck roared about 20 feet into Mexico and plowed into a concrete barrier.“He’s alive, he’s alive!” somebody screamed as Mexican police officers rushed forward.A few yards away, a tamale vendor named Francisco said he was pretty sure that the driver had tried to run over one of the agents. Then “they shot him in the head,” said Francisco, who is known by other vendors as “El Toro,” but declined to give his last name.The U.S. authorities did not give a detailed account of the shooting, but the Mexican police told the newspaper Nogales International that the driver had indeed been shot in the head.A mistaken step on the accelerator? Or a 21st-century outlaw, the latest in a long line of Americans who have found what seemed to be a good reason to head for Mexico?So far, the authorities aren’t saying. Customs and Border Protection agents said investigators with the agency’s Office of Professional Responsibility and others were examining the shooting, which left the 21-year-old driver, still officially unidentified, in critical condition. After being taken to a hospital in the Mexican town of Nogales, the agency said, he was transferred to a facility in Southern Arizona for advanced medical care. The passenger was released after questioning by the Mexican authorities.“No further details are expected to be immediately released,” C.B.P. said in a statement.We asked the nurses who the injured driver was and what happened to him. “No comment,” they said. We asked the local sheriff what he knew. “Nothing,” he replied.Like so much these days at the border, which is often seen as a bright line between Mexico and the United States, exactly what took place is blurry.— JOSE A. DEL REAL, reporting from Nogales, Ariz., and Nogales, MexicoJose is one of a team of New York Times journalists currently deployed along the border. Each week they’ll be sharing a slice of their reporting about the border and the people who spend time on both sides of it.Do you have questions about life on the border? Or feedback about this newsletter? Email us at: crossingtheborder@nytimes.com.That’s how many times the president has visited the border region since taking office in 2017.Monday’s rally in El Paso, Tex., was the president’s second visit this year, after a trip to McAllen, Tex., in January. Mr. Trump also visited the border in March 2018, when he inspected prototypes for a border wall in San Diego. In August 2017, he visited a border post in Yuma, Ariz.This year’s visits, coming amid a congressional showdown over the border wall, were meant to help the president shore up support for what he has called a “crisis” of illegal immigration. Both times — here in McAllen and here in El Paso — local residents complained that the president misstated the level of crime in their towns.This week, as the country inched closer to a Friday deadline to avert another government shutdown, congressional leaders announced a possible compromise to avoid it. On Thursday, the House and the Senate passed legislation to fund the government, and on Friday, the president announced he would declare a national emergency in order to build the wall.Here are five great ways to dive into the debate:• “In pursuit of a wall, President Trump ran into one.” This analysis of the expected deal lays out how the president came to accept a defeat, over the objections of some of his supporters.• There are nearly 2,000 miles of border between the United States and Mexico. Here’s a look at the barriers that already exist, including 700 miles of fencing built by the United States government since 2006.• Representative Will Hurd of Texas is the only Republican congressman who represents a border district. On a recent episode of The Daily, he spoke about why he disagrees with the president about a border wall. Listen to it here.• When Mr. Trump visited El Paso this week to make a pitch for the border wall, he repeated some frequent false claims about immigration. The Times fact-checked his speech here.• People in El Paso told us what they thought about the president’s view of their city.AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byBy Peter Baker and Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — President Trump appeared poised on Tuesday to end two months of scorched-earth confrontation without the money he demanded for a border wall as Republicans pressured him to accept a bipartisan spending deal rather than close the government again on Friday.Mr. Trump pronounced himself unsatisfied with the agreement brokered by House and Senate negotiators, and he refused to publicly commit to signing it. But he all but ruled out another government shutdown and emphasized that he would find “other methods” to finance a border barrier, leading aides and allies to predict he would grudgingly go along with the deal.“Am I happy at first glance?” the president said, speaking with reporters at the beginning of a cabinet meeting. “I just got to see it. The answer is no, I’m not. I’m not happy.”But he said he was “moving things around” in the budget from “far less important areas” to finance a wall even without explicit congressional approval, and he expressed no desire to repeat the standoff that shuttered many federal agencies for 35 days. “I don’t think you’re going to see a shutdown,” he said.Hours later, after a further briefing, Mr. Trump seemed to signal acceptance of the agreement, saying that it “will be hooked up with lots of money from other sources” and provide plenty of resources for border security even if not for the wall itself. “Regardless of Wall money,” he wrote on Twitter on Tuesday evening, “it is being built as we speak!”The compromise measure, assembled by senior members of both parties on Monday night, includes just $1.375 billion for new fencing along the border with Mexico, far short of the $5.7 billion Mr. Trump sought for a steel or concrete wall — and less even than the deal that he rejected in December, prompting the longest government shutdown in American history.The new measure will be taken up as early as Wednesday by the House, which is controlled by Democrats, followed by the Senate, which is run by Republicans.While some conservatives denounced it as a sellout, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, spoke with Mr. Trump by telephone on Tuesday and urged him to accept the compromise. “I hope he’ll sign it,” Mr. McConnell told reporters afterward. “I think he got a pretty good deal.”Mr. McConnell had initially sought to avoid the confrontation that has consumed the nation’s capital by pressing Mr. Trump to accept the previous measure in December, only to be surprised when the president changed his mind. However unenthusiastically, Mr. McConnell stood by the president for weeks and declined to put spending bills on the Senate floor that Mr. Trump would not sign.On Tuesday, however, Mr. McConnell made clear that he was ready to put the new spending package to a vote even though the president had not endorsed it and, notably, did not rule out overriding a veto if Mr. Trump turned against the compromise as he did two months ago.In an attempt to appease Mr. Trump, Republicans repeatedly referred to the deal as a “big down payment” on his wall and indicated that they were open to him transferring funds within the government to build more barriers. Mr. McConnell said he had no objection to the president using whatever “tools” were available. Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee suggested using $800 million in drug interdiction funding to shore up border security in areas used by narcotic traffickers.Republicans also asserted that they scored a victory by fending off Democratic efforts to impose a stricter cap on the number of detention beds for arrested immigrants and by securing any money for a barrier given that Speaker Nancy Pelosi at one point rejected even a single dollar for a wall she deemed immoral.“It’s amazing how shutdown fatigue challenges your flexibility on things,” said Senator Kevin Cramer, Republican of North Dakota, adding that he would most likely support the bill if the final text matched the descriptions he had been given.Current and former administration officials said on Tuesday that Mr. Trump seemed to be preparing to sign the bill and then reprogram as much money as he can on his own, although they cautioned that the president is unpredictable and his decision would depend on details still to be examined.Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who joined Mr. Trump on Monday at a rally in El Paso, told attendees at a Senate Republican lunch on Tuesday that his conversations with the president left him with the impression that Mr. Trump was preparing to “pivot” to a “yes” on the deal, according to a person in the room.Even Sean Hannity, the Fox News host who denounced the deal on Monday night as a “garbage compromise” that Republicans would have to answer for, said on Tuesday that he expected Mr. Trump to sign it to keep the government open and get his down payment. “He’s telegraphing what he’s going to do,” Mr. Hannity said on his radio program.Ann Coulter, the conservative commentator whose criticism helped push Mr. Trump into taking a tougher stand in December, agreed but castigated the president for it. “Trump talks a good game on the border wall but it’s increasingly clear he’s afraid to fight for it,” she wrote on Twitter. “Call this his ‘Yellow New Deal.’”Democrats, who had consented in December to give Mr. Trump $1.6 billion for border security, said this week’s agreement showed the folly of Mr. Trump’s brinkmanship. “The president had a better deal back in 2018,” said Representative Henry Cuellar, Democrat of Texas. “He just ended up in a worse situation.”Mr. Trump told reporters that he was still thinking about declaring a national emergency to bypass Congress and finance wall construction on his own authority, but aides increasingly doubt he will, given opposition by Mr. McConnell and other Republicans.Instead, Mr. Trump seemed to be trying to frame the outcome on his own terms by insisting he would still be able to protect the border. “Right now, we’re building a lot of wall,” he said.In fact, no new walls have been built or financed by Congress based on the prototypes that the Trump administration unveiled in October 2017. Projects to replace or repair about 40 miles of existing barriers have been started or completed since 2017.Construction of the first extension of the current barriers, 14 miles of a levee wall in the Rio Grande Valley, is scheduled to begin this month, but a butterfly center has asked a judge to block construction because the barrier would bisect its property.In his remarks on Tuesday, Mr. Trump flip-flopped again on taking responsibility for the government shutdown. During the weeks leading up to the impasse, Mr. Trump said he would be “proud to shut down the government for border security” and would not blame Democrats. Then during the shutdown, as 800,000 federal workers were caught in the middle without paychecks, he blamed Democrats after all.On Tuesday, he switched gears again and took responsibility. “I accepted the first one, and I’m proud of what we’ve accomplished because people learned during that shutdown all about the problems coming in from the southern border,” he said. “I accept it. I’ve always accepted it. But this one, I would never accept it if it happens, but I don’t think it’s going to happen. But this would be totally on the Democrats.”As Mr. Trump weighed his options, one person familiar with his thinking described him as frustrated by months of Republicans not doing what he hoped to see done at the border.A few weeks ago, in a meeting with restrictionist immigration group leaders, Mr. Trump faulted former Speaker Paul D. Ryan, a fellow Republican, for repeatedly deferring action on the wall, with promises of doing it down the road. “Now he’s out fishing!” Mr. Trump declared, according to an attendee.The new agreement includes a provision that could give the Trump administration broad discretion to increase the number of slots to shelter detained migrants, a win for Republicans that could ease the sting of Mr. Trump’s failure to secure full funding for his wall.On its face, the agreement authorizes the Department of Homeland Security to fund about 40,000 beds for detainees, many of them in facilities run by for-profit companies and Immigration and Customs Enforcement near the border in Texas, Arizona and California.In background briefings, House Democratic aides described the language as a “glide path” from the current level of 49,000 detention beds back to Obama-era levels of 35,000 or fewer.But a summary of the provisions drafted by Senate Republican staff members placed the average number of beds funded under the deal at a much higher number — 45,274, including 2,500 for families. And that could rise to as many as 58,500 beds, Republican aides asserted in internal communications, because federal cabinet departments have latitude in how they use funds.Under the complex funding formula in the agreement, the Department of Homeland Security would have “reprogramming authority” to transfer as much as $750 million from other programs into detention.“In short, there is more than enough flexibility for ICE to respond to any forthcoming surges in illegal immigrations and apprehensions,” the document said.Two Democratic aides said the Republican memo was accurate in theory, but added that such a drastic expansion in beds was unlikely because it would require taking money from other important programs, such as disaster relief.Democrats on the committee that hashed out the deal, under pressure from immigrant rights groups and their party’s ascendant liberal wing, stalled talks over the weekend by demanding that any deal include a cap of 16,500 beds dedicated to housing detainees apprehended through sweeps of communities away from the border. There are currently 20,000 such slots.Immigrant rights advocates expressed disappointment. “For the last two years, we’ve been in a defensive posture, working to hold the line and prevent the bad, but now House Democrats have the power to start doing good,” said Lorella Praeli of the American Civil Liberties Union, which has sued the Trump administration over its detention policies.On the other side of the ideological divide, Representative Tom Graves, Republican of Georgia and one of the 17 House and Senate lawmakers negotiating a deal, said on Twitter that he had not signed off or seen a final agreement. But “based on the reports, I have concerns,” he said. “Lots of questions too.”Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and one of four lawmakers who worked out the accord, said he was not worried about objections from the right.“In some areas, we probably got more than a lot of people expected, and in some areas we didn’t get as much,” he said. “But that’s the nature of the beast.”Reporting was contributed by Maggie Haberman from New York, and Emily Cochrane, Linda Qiu and Eric Schmitt from Washington.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del RealLOS ANGELES — Gov. Gavin Newsom of California announced Monday that he would withdraw nearly 400 of his state’s National Guard troops from deployment along the border with Mexico and assign them to other duties.The step to rescind state authorization for the border deployment is a sharp rebuke of President Trump’s continued warnings that undocumented migrants present a national security risk to the United States. It follows a similar move last week by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico.Under a “general order” that Mr. Newsom plans to sign, 110 California National Guard troops will be redirected to support the state’s central fire agency, Cal Fire, and another 100 will work on statewide “intelligence operations” aimed at international criminal drug gangs.Mr. Newsom is also seeking to expand the state’s Counterdrug Task Force with 150 National Guard troops, which would require funding from the Department of Defense.[This month, we’re launching a limited-run weekly newsletter about life on the border, far from the tug-of-war of Washington politics. Sign up here to receive the first issue of Crossing the Border when it launches.]Since his election in November, Mr. Newsom has emphasized a progressive vision for California and the country, pitching his state as a leader on issues like immigration, climate change and income inequality. He promised last month to “offer an alternative to the corruption and incompetence in the White House.”Mr. Newsom is expected to speak publicly about the redeployment during his State of the State address on Tuesday, with sharp criticism of the president’s immigration policies and rhetoric.The National Guard has had an expanded presence in California since April, when Mr. Newsom’s predecessor, Jerry Brown, agreed to add 400 troops to shore up border-related security at the request of the Trump administration.At the time, Mr. Brown stressed that the deployment, which was financed by the federal government, would support efforts to go after criminal gangs, human traffickers and drug smugglers. He said the troops would not be used to enforce federal immigration policies.“This will not be a mission to build a new wall,” Mr. Brown wrote in a letter to Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, and Jim Mattis, who was secretary of defense at the time.“It will not be a mission to round up women and children or detain people escaping violence and seeking a better life,” Mr. Brown wrote, adding, “There is no massive wave of migrants pouring into California. Overall immigrant apprehensions on the border last year were as low as they’ve been in nearly 50 years.”Mr. Newsom and Mr. Brown are both Democrats. So is Governor Grisham of New Mexico, though the predecessor whose deployment decision she reversed was a Republican.Before the April deployment, there were about 250 National Guard troops serving in California, and 55 of them were stationed at the border. Under federal law, the troops are paid by the federal government but are under the control of the governor. It was not clear whether federal financing for the troops would continue after Mr. Newsom’s redirection order.Mr. Brown’s letter authorizing the deployment was largely seen at the time as a denunciation of President Trump’s immigration policies, but many activists and elected officials in the state sharply criticized Mr. Brown for agreeing to any guard deployment at all.Last summer, Kevin De León, who was then the State Senate leader, urged Mr. Brown to “not be complicit” in the administration’s hard-line immigration priorities, which he called “driven by racial animus.” Mr. De Leon, a Democrat, drafted the state law limiting coordination between local authorities and immigration enforcement agents, known colloquially as the “sanctuary state” law, which Mr. Brown signed in 2017.Despite the criticism, Mr. Brown later extended state authorization for the National Guard presence at the border through March 2019.Mr. Trump initially thanked Mr. Brown for the deployment, which was part of a national deployment of up to 4,000 troops authorized by Mr. Mattis. But to the confusion of many Californians, Mr. Trump later blasted the governor for placing limits on what the troops could do.“Looks like Jerry Brown and California are not looking for safety and security along their very porous Border,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “He cannot come to terms for the National Guard to patrol and protect the Border. The high crime rate will only get higher.”Illegal border crossings have been sharply declining for years. Apprehensions of undocumented migrants by border patrol agents are near historic lows. And undetected crossings have fallen to 62,000 in 2016 from 851,000 in 2006, according to the Department of Homeland Security. Several studies indicate that crime rates are lower among immigrants than among native-born Americans.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackLawyers for the Britain-born rapper 21 Savage say he will be released on bond on Wednesday after spending more than a week in the custody of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which said it had arrested him for being in the United States illegally.Kuck Baxter Immigration, the law firm representing the rapper, whose legal name is She’yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph, posted news of his pending release on its Facebook page on Tuesday afternoon.“In the last 24 hours, in the wake of the Grammy Awards at which he was scheduled to attend and perform, we received notice that She’yaa was granted an expedited hearing,” the post said. “Today, 21 Savage was granted a release on bond. He won his freedom.”Mr. Abraham-Joseph, 26, was arrested in the early hours of Feb. 3 during an operation by federal and local law enforcement authorities in Atlanta, Immigration and Customs Enforcement said at the time.The agency said in a statement at the time that he was a British national who had entered the United States on a nonimmigrant visa in 2005 and was supposed to leave the following year.The agency also said that Mr. Abraham-Joseph was convicted of felony drug charges in Fulton County, Ga., in 2014. One of Mr. Abraham-Joseph’s lawyers, Charles Kuck, said that conviction was vacated and the charges were dismissed by prosecutors in 2018.A member of the rapper’s legal team, Dina LaPolt, said in a statement after his arrest that he had been “left without legal status through no fault of his own” because “as a minor, his family overstayed their work visas.” Mr. Kuck said his client was 12 when his immigration status expired.Mr. Abraham-Joseph was nominated for a Grammy Award for record of the year for “Rockstar,” a song with the rapper Post Malone, but did not win at the awards ceremony on Sunday. Known for his flat delivery and subdued rap style, his album “I Am > I Was” opened at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 in January.Charles Kuck, another member of Mr. Abraham-Joseph’s legal team, said Tuesday that the rapper had been granted release but would have to spend one more night in custody.“We actually can’t get him out today because ICE stops taking money at 2 o’clock and the judge’s decision came down at around 2:15,” Mr. Kuck said. “He’ll be released in the morning.”Mr. Kuck declined to say what bail had been set at or where his client was being detained, but he said Mr. Abraham-Joseph had been treated well.“The facility where he has been held has been extraordinarily gracious to him, his legal team and his family,” Mr. Kuck said. “They have treated him well and we are grateful for their hospitality, as best as that can be in a jail cell.”A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement did not respond to a request for comment on Tuesday.Mr. Abraham-Joseph’s next date in immigration court is set for April 11, Mr. Kuck said.The Facebook post from Mr. Abraham-Joseph’s lawyers on Tuesday said that he wanted to draw attention to immigration detainees who are not as well known as he is.“He will not forget this ordeal or any of the other fathers, sons, family members, and faceless people he was locked up with or that remain unjustly incarcerated across the country,” the post said. “And he asks for your hearts and minds to be with them.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLetter 94By Damien CaveThe Australia Letter is a weekly newsletter from our Australia bureau chief. Sign up to get it by email.___Parliament approved a bill this week to allow medical evacuation for asylum seekers on Nauru and Manus over the opposition of Prime Minister Scott Morrison, throwing Australia into another visceral debate over immigration.In the coming months, with an election approaching, we can expect to hear all kinds of intense and moralistic rhetoric.Mr. Morrison and his supporters are already arguing that opening the door even a little to settlement in Australia will encourage a flood of migrants and deaths at sea. Labor, the Greens and others on the left are maintaining that immigration is a net positive for Australia and that cruelty must be restrained.This is all part of a broader conversation across the West about migration and national identity; the White House announced just today that President Trump will declare a state of emergency to build a border wall.And it’s a conversation that matters. These disputes, however they end up, will shape many countries, and the world, for decades.But for me, there’s a certain familiarity to the discussion, not just in Washington but also in Canberra.I’ve written about immigration for nearly 20 years, from various countries, from the neighborhoods and towns where immigrants cluster to the halls of power where decisions are made.Along the way, there are a few things I’ve learned to look out for.The Hero Vs. Villain TrapIn heated moments like this one, immigrants and the nuances of their lives and motivations tend to be reduced to the most simplistic of archetypes.Either they are criminals (the worst of the worst, rapists, murders, pedophiles) or they are blameless hard-working heroes (say, doctors or professional basketball players from Australia in the N.B.A.).The reality — and this should be obvious, but often gets overlooked — is that most migrants are in the messy middle with the rest of us. They’re good and bad, they’re parents and workers, and they’re mostly just trying to make life a little bit better for themselves and their loved ones.This idea that they are somehow different and more extreme reflects little more than the political need for narrative and division. Beware of the packaging of simplicity.“It’s a Fact-Free Zone”When I was reporting a series of stories back in 2012 — the first to show that the era of mass Mexican migration was over — an expert I talked to warned that policymakers would ignore my findings.Immigration, he said, is an issue driven by emotion. “It’s a fact-free zone,” he said. And he was right.No matter how many cold hard facts get put into the public domain in the next few months — and I hope there are a lot of them — don’t expect the politicians to adjust their arguments. They’re appealing less to the head than the heart.And look out for what’s missing too.You probably won’t hear anyone, for example, pointing out that the decision to migrate is typically a long-term bet, calculated and paid for over several years, which rarely responds to immediate policy changes in predictable ways.There are both push (from a country) and pull (to a country) factors and, according to sociologists and demographers, it is often impossible to make sweeping cause-and-effect conclusions based on one element alone.Every immigrant has a story all their own. People move and flee for reasons that often have very little to do with what policymakers do to deter or assist them.Interaction WinsDuring a long road trip from the Mexican to the Canadian border, for a project exploring immigration in Middle America, I met dozens of Americans with all kinds of views about immigration.But there are two people, both older white women, who I still think about.One was in Farmers Branch, Texas, an area that had tried, but failed, to push out immigrants who might not be documented with a series of strict residential rental rules and policing. She told me through her locked screen door that she wanted tougher enforcement; she was afraid.Another was in Wichita, in Kansas, in an area that had gone from a declining white, working-class community to one that was reviving but more mixed in terms of ethnicity and origin.The woman’s name was Francene Sharp. You can read her full story here, but what stuck with me was her reaction to a break in at her home by some local Mexican teenagers.She had cause to be angry. But because she’d spent years getting to know many of her other immigrant neighbors — including a friend who she called for help right after the break in — her response and her views were tempered and calm.What she had (that the woman in Texas did not) was real-life interaction, enough of it to prevent her from making sweeping judgments about people or policy.She relied on her own deep experience and a remarkable openness to combat the “fact-free zone” and the “hero/villain trap.”Border policy was on her radar; she was no supporter of “open borders.” But she was far more interested in why those teenagers who broke in were not at home studying. Integration and community mattered more to her than border walls.Which brings me to what I’ll be looking for in this year’s Australian (and American) immigration debate.Will there be people pushing the conversation beyond border enforcement and detention?Who, if anyone, will be asking: How can immigration be studied, discussed and shaped in conjunction with immigrants to ensure that Australia (the country that often calls itself “the world’s most successful multicultural nation”) lives up to that promise?Now for a few stories of the week (plus a few surprising recommendations from Paul Krugman).As always, you can share your thoughts in our NYT Australia Facebook group. And if you’re enjoying this newsletter, don’t forget to share it and tell your friends to sign up too.___A few years ago, that lake you see above (it’s in the Swiss Alps) didn’t exist — it was just ice. Now, with glaciers melting all over Europe due to climate change, the dynamics of the land, and tourism, are changing.But not everyone in Switzerland is upbeat about it; don’t miss our magazine profile of the tiny Swiss company that thinks it can help stop climate changeAnd while you’re at it, read our Op-Ed on climate change and the frightening new normal in Australia.___Several women say Ryan Adams — who had a reputation in the music business for drunken misbehavior back when I covered music years ago — offered to jump start their music careers, then pursued them sexually and in some cases retaliated when they spurned him.He denies the claims. But The Times talked to several women with similar accounts, and the reports are already stirring a conversation about the consequences of a “sex, drugs and rock ‘n’ roll culture” that has defined rock music for decades.___If you’re not already a regular listener to The New York Times’s award-winning podcast, The Daily, go back and listen to this episode, which captures a conversation between our publisher, A.G. Sulzberger, and President Trump.It will help you understand how The Times thinks, less in terms of politics than in terms of journalism and journalists around the world.___Lots of good stuff this week, tilting toward enterprise reporting and analysis:• The Strange Experience of Being Australia’s First Tech Billionaires: In a country where wealth usually comes from mining or banking, Scott Farquhar and Mike Cannon-Brookes of Atlassian are a new kind of mogul. And they’re getting into politics.• In Tour of Australia, Chinese Admire Clean Air but Bemoan Lack of Hot Drinking Water: We spent four days with a group of Chinese tourists visiting Australia. The visitors and locals approached each other with confusion, skepticism and sometimes racism.• New Zealand Fears Fraying Ties With China, Its Biggest Customer: The cancellation of a tourism initiative and the abrupt return of an Air New Zealand flight has many suspecting Chinese retaliation for a ban on Huawei.• Australia to Allow Medical Evacuation for Nauru and Manus Island Detainees: Prime Minister Scott Morrison had opposed the bill, which will let some asylum seekers held on Pacific islands be treated medically in Australia.• Aboriginal Hunters’ Fires Help Restore an Australian Desert: A study of how the Martu shaped their land presents an example where humans seem to benefit an environment perceived as wilderness.Food and Drink• In Sydney, Sri Lankan Cuisine Gets a Thrilling Update: Lankan Filling Station serves exciting sambols alongside cocktails and natural wine in a crowded room that thrums with energy.• In Tasmania, a Gin Boom Showcasing Native Plants (and Even Sheep Whey): Gin from the south Australian island state is on the rise. In trendy bars throughout Australia, entire pages on menus are devoted to Tasmanian gins.Opinion• Letter From an Australian Jail: An Iranian Kurdish writer, detained for six years on a remote island for seeking asylum in Australia, proves that words are more powerful than fences.• The Alarming Allure of Australia’s Brumbies: The environment is being sacrificed for a national myth.... And in case you missed the link above:• Opinion: Australia’s Burning, Flooding, Disastrous New Normal: We are a land of proudly resilient people. But in an age of climate change, we can’t just hike up our Stubbies and move on.___...And We RecommendEarlier this week in Melbourne, I hosted a discussion with Paul Krugman, the veteran New York Times columnist and Nobel-prize-winning economist.We talked about trade and politics, of course, but at dinner the night before, Paul also told me that late in life, he’d become an indie rock fanatic.So here are a few recommendations from Paul, not for how to prevent recession, but rather for what to listen to when you’re worried about the world.• Wolf Alice• Warpaint• The Lone BellowDamien Cave is the Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. He’s covered more than a dozen countries for The Times, including Mexico, Cuba, Iraq and Lebanon. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Simon RomeroEL PASO — Ahead of President Trump’s scheduled rally in this West Texas city aimed at building support for his proposed wall on the border with Mexico, people from across the ideological spectrum in El Paso had a message for him on Sunday: Don’t speak for us.“The president is just wrong about the wall and wrong about El Paso,” said Jon Barela, a lifelong Republican and chief executive of the Borderplex Alliance, an organization promoting economic development in a cross-border industrial hub with a combined population of more than 2.7 million, taking in the cities of El Paso, Ciudad Juárez and Las Cruces.Mr. Barela disputed Mr. Trump’s widely discredited assertion that border fencing had cut violent crime in El Paso, pointing to F.B.I. data showing that the city has ranked for decades among the safest urban areas its size in the United States — long before American authorities started building some fencing along the border about a decade ago.“As a fiscally conservative Republican, I just don’t understand how spending $25 billion on a wall with limited effectiveness is a good idea,” Mr. Barela said in an interview. “Mexico is an economic and strategic ally of the United States, and an antiquated effort to place a barrier between us just won’t work.”[This month, we’re launching a limited-run weekly newsletter about life on the border, far from the tug-of-war of Washington politics. Sign up here to receive the first issue of Crossing the Border when it launches.]Dee Margo, the Republican mayor of El Paso, voiced similar criticism of Mr. Trump’s description of El Paso, in his State of the Union address, as “one of the nation’s most dangerous cities” before the barrier went up on the border. Representative Veronica Escobar, a Democrat recently elected to Congress to represent El Paso, is asking Mr. Trump to apologize and meet with migrant families seeking asylum in the United States.The tension surrounding Mr. Trump’s planned visit to El Paso on Monday is revealing political fissures. A Democratic bastion in a state where Republicans have long wielded dominance in statewide politics, El Paso is also home to Beto O’Rourke, the former local congressman who is a star of the Democratic Party and a potential challenger to Mr. Trump in the 2020 presidential election.At the same time Mr. Trump is scheduled to speak before about 6,000 people at the El Paso County Coliseum, Mr. O’Rourke will speak at another rally a mile away. Mr. O’Rourke said in an essay on Medium that Mr. Trump “will promise a wall and will repeat his lies about the dangers that immigrants pose.”El Paso, where Hispanics account for about 80 percent of the population, was already hostile ground for Mr. Trump. In the 2016 election, he took only about 26 percent of the vote in El Paso County.[Read our latest story on Trump and Beto’s rallies in El Paso.]Still, the president shouldn’t have a problem filling the venue. Some of his supporters in the city remain eager to hear what Mr. Trump has to say.“I’d like to see a wall go up along the entire border,” said Joshua Ascencio, 21, a cavalry scout in the United States Army who has plans to become an agent with the Border Patrol when he leaves the military. Mr. Ascencio said he was looking forward to Mr. Trump’s rally.“I’m a supporter of the president and I think it’s important to be there for him,” said Mr. Ascencio. “I want to hear him on border security.”Still, for many others in this city of immigrants the mere idea of Mr. Trump coming to El Paso to promote his administration’s crackdown on immigration raises hackles.“The president of the United States is, disgracefully, nothing more than a racist,” said Mayra Cabral, 37, an immigrant who grew up across the border in Ciudad Juárez and now cleans tables at a restaurant in El Paso, where she has lived for the last 19 years after marrying an American citizen.Ms. Cabral laughed out loud when asked about Mr. Trump’s claims that Hispanic immigrants bring crime to the United States. She said that El Paso is normally so calm that it’s “boring here sometimes.” Ms. Cabral added that she and her family were not getting waylaid by talk of the president’s visit; on Saturday night, they hosted a quinceañera for her 15-year-old daughter attended by about 300 people.“I was able to do this for my daughter because I work at a job that people born in the United States won’t do,” Ms. Cabral said. “Trump likes to call us criminals, but what about all the Americans in the country who commit violent crimes? Why doesn’t he talk about them for once?”Mr. Trump appears to have homed in on El Paso after meeting with Republican officials from Texas in January in McAllen, a city affected by a large influx of migrant families traveling through the Rio Grande Valley. At that meeting, Attorney General Ken Paxton of Texas told Mr. Trump that the construction of border fencing in El Paso caused crime to fall in the city.But while El Paso has long been relatively safer than other American cities its size, the violent crime rate in the city actually climbed briefly just before and in the two years after authorities installed fencing on the border as part of an effort to improve border security during the administration of George W. Bush.Mr. Paxton tried to back up his assertion that a border wall in El Paso had cut crime rates by referring to a “131-mile fence that was completed in 2010.” PolitiFact, the nonpartisan fact-checking website owned by the Poynter Institute, questioned Mr. Paxton’s claim, pointing out that while Texas does have 131 miles of fencing not all of it is even in El Paso.The contested assertions of a senior state official comes at a time of ratcheting tension in Texas over the treatment of Latino voters by Republican state officials, who in January called into question the citizenship status of nearly 100,000 voters. County officials found that the list of voters, which was referred to by Mr. Paxton in a campaign fund-raising email with the headline “VOTER FRAUD ALERT,” actually included scores of naturalized citizens.The Mexican American Legal Defense Fund filed a lawsuit this month against Mr. Paxton, Gov. Greg Abbott and Secretary of State David Whitley of Texas, arguing that they conspired to purge Latinos from voter rolls following a surge in turnout by Latino voters in the midterm elections.Governor Abbott and United States Senator Ted Cruz, the Republican who narrowly defeated Mr. O’Rourke to hold on to his seat in November, are among the Republican officials from around the state who are expected to attend the rally on Monday in support of Mr. Trump.But elsewhere along the border, there has been rising opposition among state and local officials to the president’s security strategies.[Read: Butterflies, Bulldozers and Barbed Wire Rally Border Wall Opponents]New Mexico’s governor, Michelle Lujan Grisham, announced last week that she had ordered a partial withdrawal of National Guard troops from her state. “New Mexico will not take part in the president’s charade of border fear-mongering by misusing our diligent National Guard troops,” Ms. Grisham, a Democrat, said in a statement.Early Monday, Gov. Gavin Newsom of California announced that his state, too, would withdraw National Guard troops sent earlier to help the federal government boost security at the border.In Nogales, Ariz., the City Council on Wednesday passed a resolution condemning the recent installation of new barbed wire along the existing border wall in that city, calling it an “indiscriminate use of lethal force” that is “typically only found in a war, battlefield or prison setting.”Gaining public support for the idea of a wall at an event such as the rally in El Paso will be important for Mr. Trump, as talks for a bipartisan agreement on border security appeared to have stalled on Sunday amid lingering disagreement over how much should be spent on a border barrier. President Trump, who initially proposed spending $25 billion on a wall, now is looking for $5.7 billion. Democratic lawmakers have talked about a figure closer to $1.3 billion to $2 billion.A second government shutdown could be in the works if no agreement is reached.Bob Giles, a car dealer from Lafayette, La., who is building a new Volvo dealership in El Paso, said that he understood how Mr. Trump’s proposed wall could seem like a good idea from an “outside perspective.”“But when you spend time in El Paso and talk to people, it’s clear they take offense that a wall made a difference in the city,” said Mr. Giles. While Mr. Trump often speaks of a crisis on the border, Mr. Giles said he hasn’t seen one.“That’s not the word I would choose,” he said. His own hope is to sell cars not just to Americans, but also to business executives from Juárez who have homes in El Paso. “This is an incredibly vibrant market with lots of construction going on,” he said. “It makes a difference when you see it with your own eyes.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byInstead of fanning fear, the president should listen to people on both sides of the border.By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistEL PASO — I have a suggestion for President Trump. Instead of fanning fear during your visit to this city on Monday night, stroll across the Paso del Norte Bridge into Ciudad Júarez. Join the 70,000 people crossing four bridges who daily form the human tissue linking the United States and Mexico. They work, they study, they eat, they shop, all part of what Dee Margo, the mayor of El Paso, calls “one region, one culture.”I crossed the bridge. Things slow down, as they do when you move from the developed to the developing world. Secondhand clothes for sale hang on simple brightly painted homes, the poorest made of pallets and corrugated iron roofs. Júarez, home to many of the foreign-owned assembly plants known as “maquiladoras,” has a violent history and big social problems, but in the dusty streets and cafes serving steaming bowls of tripe-and-bean soup I discerned no tension.“It’s simple,” Julián Cardona, a photographer, told me. “Everyone here knows Trump hates brown people. We call him ‘Trompudo,’ or ‘big mouth.’”From that mouth seeps the sinister specter of an “invasion.” Thousands of active-duty troops are dispatched to the border. Concertina wire spreads. The government shutdown that ended on Jan. 25 could be followed soon by Trump’s declaration of a national emergency to build his wall. Presidential powers include the power to manufacture a threat where none exists.“From my vantage point in El Paso there is no crisis,” Margo, the mayor, told me. “You look south and you can’t tell where El Paso merges into Júarez.”Bridges, in other words, trump walls.At one of the shelters run by the nonprofit Annunciation House, I met Iris Galindo Maldonado, an undocumented 43-year-old woman from Guerrero State, in southwestern Mexico, who entered the United States on Jan. 15 with her 10-year-old daughter to request asylum. Her husband was killed seven years ago by drug dealers angered by his refusal to cooperate with them. She said they have threatened her in turn for refusing to help them smuggle cocaine.“I’ve already lived,” she told me. “I hope the American authorities support me for my daughter, so she’s not in danger, she’s not menaced, and gets educated. I told her, even if we stay one week, two weeks, however long it is, use the opportunity to learn English. She’s already in school, and I pray to God a lot.”Galindo, aged 43, has been processed by ICE, fitted with an ankle bracelet, and let go to face a long wait in American limbo, along with several hundred thousand others, before her day in immigration court. She has no family in the United States.“Trump calls us killers, delinquents and drug dealers,” she told me. “In fact that is exactly what we are fleeing from!”Annunciation House took her in. Ruben Garcia, the director of the organization, says he is finding beds these days for more than 2,000 people a week. If nothing else, Trump’s rhetoric and policy swerves have helped feed chaos.“For Trump, to be a refugee is to be a murderer and a rapist,” Garcia told me. “This is what he ran on. He has a can of paint filled with a certain ideology and paints everything with it. To supporters of the wall, I ask: Is it time to take down the Statue of Liberty?”Representative Veronica Escobar, the successor to Beto O’Rourke, now a possible Democratic presidential candidate, took me down to the spot, near a stretch of existing wall, where border agents detained an 8-year-old Guatemalan boy, Felipe Gómez Alonzo, in December. He later died in United States custody.The spot is over the Rio Grande, in the United States, but just short of the wall, raising the question of the barrier’s usefulness. That is a question the president has refused to address with any seriousness. His wall is much less about security than macho symbolism — “a monument to bigotry,” in Escobar’s words.I got talking to an agent who stopped us as we stepped south of the wall. He said agents in that area detained “300 bodies a day.” He said the “bodies” were jumping the line. He said by the time their cases came before an immigration judge, “the bodies are somewhere else so they get to stay.” So, he concluded, “we really have no authority to enforce the law.”Bodies, I noted, is a term generally used for dead people. Would it not be better to call them people or human beings, as this is what they are? The agent said he didn’t mean that they are dead, but that “bodies” was the favored term.I was subsequently advised not to read too much into this “law enforcement vernacular.” Border agents are under a lot of pressure. Their gestures of humanity — a birthday cake, a soccer ball — tend to go unrecorded. Still, if you talk about bodies you are liable to see bodies: that is to say, people stripped of their humanity, their agonizing choices, their humble ambitions and their hopes. It is then easier to treat them with callous harshness, to forget what we Americans are and where we came from.When I walked back across the bridge, a United States passport control officer pored over my passport for several minutes: the Iranian visa, the Iraqi visa, the Chinese visa, the Indian visa. She asked what I do, whether I’d crossed the bridge before, why I’d entered Mexico. She was hostile.“This guy’s from The New York Times,” she said, turning to the agent next to her. “What should I do with him?”He looked me over. “Let him go,” he said. I thanked her for the warm welcome home. “Just doing my job,” she said.Trump’s rhetoric is not innocuous.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Peter Baker and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — In pursuit of a wall, President Trump ran into one. A single-minded drive to force Congress to finance his signature campaign promise has left Mr. Trump right back where he started, this time seeking a way to climb over the political barrier in his way after trying to charge through it did not work.As he inched closer to reluctantly accepting a bipartisan spending compromise without the money he demanded for his border wall, Mr. Trump offered no acknowledgment on Wednesday that his pressure tactics had failed even as aides sought to minimize the damage by tamping down criticism on the right.One call was made to Lou Dobbs, a favorite of Mr. Trump’s whose Fox Business Network show he often tries to catch live. Another was placed to Sean Hannity, the Fox host who regularly talks with the president. The message: Mr. Trump deserved support because he still forced concessions that he would never have gotten without a five-week partial government shutdown.Even so, it was arguably the most punishing defeat Mr. Trump has experienced as president, and it left the White House scrounging for other ways to pay for a wall on the southwestern border and rethinking its approach to a Congress now partly controlled by Democrats. Mr. Trump’s inability to reach a satisfying deal despite the negotiating experience he regularly touted on the campaign trail suggested that any aspirations of collaboration across party lines may be even more elusive than he had imagined.“We shut down the government for 35 days, we put America through this crisis, we jeopardized our economy — for what?” said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the second-ranking Democrat in the upper chamber and a member of the House-Senate committee that negotiated this week’s spending deal. “Totally unnecessary.”The agreement that lawmakers produced this week would allocate $1.375 billion for fencing along the border, even less than was on the table at one point last year. The Senate plans to vote on the measure on Thursday, followed by the House. Mr. Trump would not say whether he would sign it, but he seemed to be leaning toward it in the interest of avoiding another government shutdown at midnight Friday.“With the wall, they want to be stingy,” Mr. Trump complained about Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other congressional Democrats during an encounter with reporters on Wednesday. “But we have options that most people don’t really understand.”Those options involve diverting money from other programs and potentially declaring a national emergency to access further funds. In the end, aides said, Mr. Trump may even secure more money than Congress denied him. But those options were just as available to Mr. Trump in December before the showdown that closed federal agencies.While acknowledging disappointment in the agreement, the president and his aides characterized it as better than it seemed, citing money it will provide for overall border security. Mr. Trump argued that the shutdown had been useful because it educated the country about troubles at the border and, if nothing else, he has framed the national debate on his terms.That did not completely assuage conservatives. Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the House Freedom Caucus, contradicted the White House line and declared that the agreement was “a bad deal for the president.”“Only in Washington, D.C., can we start out with needing $25 billion for border security measures and expect applause at 1.37,” he said Tuesday on Fox News. “I mean, only in D.C. is that a winning deal.”Mr. Meadows and his allies were among those targeted by the White House in hopes of avoiding a more threatening conservative revolt. A meeting with members of his Freedom Caucus in the Oval Office was partly aimed at urging them to hold their fire in television interviews when talking about the bill, according to a person briefed on the effort.And indeed, despite his complaints about the bill, Mr. Meadows made a point on Wednesday of not blaming Mr. Trump. “I think he handled it as well as anybody could handle it, given a dysfunctional Congress,” Mr. Meadows told reporters.Among those involved in the outreach, according to the person briefed on the discussions, was Bill Shine, a White House deputy chief of staff and former Fox executive who in the West Wing is seen as adept at getting some hosts at Fox to respond to White House concerns.Since coming to office, Mr. Trump has missed several opportunities to make more progress on the wall. Instead of Mexico directly paying for a $25 billion, 1,000-mile concrete barrier, as the president once said would happen, he has been seeking partial installments from Congress, arguing that his new trade agreement with Mexico will ultimately pay off enough to offset the cost. The partial installments have generally gone to replacing or repairing existing barriers, not to building the new concrete or steel walls Mr. Trump wants.At one point last year, the president and Democrats were close to a deal in which he would get all $25 billion for the wall in exchange for protections for 1.8 million young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. But Mr. Trump ultimately turned away because he also wanted cuts to legal immigration that Democrats would not accept.In his budget request for this year, Mr. Trump asked for $1.6 billion, and the Senate Appropriations Committee agreed on a bipartisan basis to give him that last summer. But the measure stalled until after the midterm elections in November.By the time Mr. Trump met with Ms. Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, in December, they offered $1.375 billion. The president then insisted on $5.7 billion, and when he did not get it, much of the government was left without the funding to keep doors open.During the shutdown, Ms. Pelosi took an even harder line, saying she would not spend a single dollar on Mr. Trump’s wall, although she said she would provide money for other border security.The deal reached this week returned to the same $1.375 billion available in December to pay for 55 miles of fencing along the border, although not walls based on the new steel or concrete prototypes Mr. Trump has promoted.Mr. Trump and his aides claimed victory because they had gotten more than Ms. Pelosi’s zero dollars, and they noted that the agreement also included $23 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection, an increase from $21 billion last year. But Democrats said much of the increase would go to their priorities, like more customs agents and humanitarian aid, not to Mr. Trump’s.Either way, his aides are now focused on finding pots of money that, with the president’s traditional discretion, can be reprogrammed toward the wall. If that is not enough, he could still declare a national emergency to bypass Congress, although such a move is opposed by many Republicans and would invariably draw a court challenge.As a result, some supporters of tougher border security said Mr. Trump’s critics should not crow because the struggle is not over.“People say, ‘Well, the president lost,’” said James Jay Carafano, a national security analyst at the Heritage Foundation. “The analogy here is if it’s a 10-round fight, Trump’s fighting 10 rounds. If Pelosi wants to say at the end of Round 1, ‘I won that round,’ Trump’s like, ‘Yeah, maybe, but I’m fighting 10 rounds.’”Andy Surabian, a former Trump White House aide, said the details do not matter to the president’s base as much as his determination to fulfill his promise. “His supporters don’t care about how the rest of the wall is built,” he said. “They just care that the wall is ultimately built.”Peter Baker reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Emily Cochrane contributed reporting from Washington.Follow Peter Baker and Maggie Haberman on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @maggieNYT.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Caitlin DickersonA 45-year-old Mexican migrant died on Monday in the custody of United States Customs and Border Protection, an event that was sure to intensify pressure on an agency overwhelmed by record numbers of migrant families crossing the border, while its health and safety standards have come under harsh public scrutiny.The migrant, who was not identified, had been apprehended on Feb. 2 by the police in Roma, Tex., near a port of entry into the United States, and requested medical attention. He was found to have cirrhosis of the liver and congestive heart failure, the agency said in a statement, and was hospitalized twice while in custody — the second time spending two weeks in the intensive care unit of the McAllen Medical Center. He died there around 9 a.m. Monday.The death came less than two months after 7-year-old Jakelin Caal Maquin and 8-year-old Felipe Gomez Alonzo also died in the agency’s custody, in December, amid three straight months of record-breaking numbers of migrant families entering the country. Both had shown symptoms of illness after they were taken into custody along the Southwest border, and their deaths prompted widespread condemnation from members of Congress and the public. The agency soon after announced new medical checks for children, and a temporary infusion of support from other federal agencies, including the Coast Guard and the United States Public Health Service.Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, has requested $800 million from Congress to address the influx of migrant children and families, calling it a “humanitarian crisis.” The money would go toward staffing, supplies and enhanced facilities, among other things.The migrant who died Monday was apprehended alone for “illegal re-entry,” meaning that he had entered the United States without authorization at least once in the past, according to Andrew Meehan, an assistant commissioner with the agency’s Office of Public Affairs.“This loss of life is tragic,” Mr. Meehan said in a statement. “Our condolences go out to the family and loved ones. C.B.P. remains committed to ensuring the safe and humane treatment of those within the care of our custody.”Many migrants who cross the Southwest border, hoping either to request asylum or sneak in illicitly, become injured or ill during their journey to the United States, while others arrive in need of care for chronic or longstanding conditions.The demographics of border crossers have evolved significantly in the last decade, putting a strain on C.B.P.’s resources. Once predominantly single, healthy men from Mexico who could be returned home within a few hours, a majority of current border crossers are Central Americans who cannot be turned back immediately because of legal provisions. Many of them request asylum, assuring an even longer stay in federal custody.More than 40 percent of migrants apprehended along the Southwest border enter through the Rio Grande Valley, where Roma is, and where local residents have become accustomed to a heavy presence of Border Patrol and newly arrived immigrants. Recently, though, higher numbers of migrants have been crossing in remote areas — in part as a result of harsh policies introduced by the Trump administration — where the lack of resources has been particularly acute.Encounters with migrants who have come to be in grave danger have also increased, the agency said, including 17 people who had to be rescued on Thursday after becoming stranded or overcome by swift currents as they tried to cross the Rio Grande. The rescues took place near Eagle Pass, Tex., about 200 miles northwest of Roma.C.B.P.’s Office of Professional Responsibility is reviewing the death that occurred on Monday, Mr. Meehan, the agency spokesman, said. The office is also reviewing the deaths of the two children that occurred in December. Jakelin Caal Maquin’s father has disputed the agency’s assertion that she had not eaten or had water for several days before they were apprehended.Advertisement“My situation is important ’cause I represent poor black Americans and I represent poor immigrant Americans,” the rapper said.In one of his first interviews after being released by Immigrations and Customs Enforcement for overstaying his visa, the rapper 21 Savage talks about his early days in the United States and his time in detention.CreditCreditDiwang Valdez for The New York TimesSupported byBy Jon CaramanicaALPHARETTA, Ga. — For the last four years, 21 Savage has been one of the stalwarts of Atlanta rap, a rising star who has collaborated with Drake and Cardi B, among many others, and become one of the signature voices in the city. His December album “I Am > I Was” spent two weeks at the top of the Billboard chart, and his collaboration with Post Malone, “Rockstar,” was nominated for two Grammys.With that success has come more visibility. In late January, he performed his single “A Lot” on “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon,” adding a new verse in which he rapped about children being separated from their parents at the border.A few days later, early in the morning on Super Bowl Sunday, Feb. 3, 21 Savage (born She’yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph) was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, who said he was an “unlawfully present United Kingdom national” who had overstayed his visa.He remained in ICE custody at the Irwin County Detention Center in South Georgia until Feb. 13, when he was released on $100,000 bond. The next day, he was in a hotel room in a suburb north of Atlanta, surrounded by several members of his legal team. Dressed in somber all-black, he spoke at length about his childhood, his time in detention, the Grammy Awards ceremony he missed and how growing up without legal status shaped the person he became. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.Do you remember first arriving here when you were young?Yeah, everything was like, bigger. I come from the poor side of London. My grandma house is real skinny. So when we first moved here, we was living in the hood still, but it was, like, way bigger. The toilet size, the bathroom size, it was just different. But I fell in love with it. It’s all I know.Did you have a British accent?Yeah, I had a accent, ’cause my first day of school they was making fun of me so I beat somebody up, and they was calling me “taekwondo kid.” My mama whupped me, she made me stay in the house. So I know I had a accent, but I been here 20 years — I don’t know what happened to it.Do you remember when you became aware that your status wasn’t settled?Probably like the age when you start to get your driver’s license. I couldn’t never take driver’s ed, I couldn’t never go get a job. About that age.Was it something you wanted to get taken care of?It felt impossible. It got to the point where I just learned to live without it. ’Cause I still ain’t got it, I’m 26, and I’m rich. So, just learned to live without it.Like a lot of other immigrants.We struggled but we couldn’t get food stamps, we couldn’t get government assistance. I learned how to live without. You know in school, when you get to a certain age, your clothes make you popular? I learned how to be popular without that. People respected me just for me.Do you think the situation taught you to carry yourself a certain way?It made me who I am. I wouldn’t write it no other way if I had the choice. If they said, “Hey, you could start your life over and make yourself a citizen,” I wouldn’t have never did it. I still want to go through this right here ’cause it made me who I am, it made me strong.Were you aware that there was a possibility that at some point you might not be able to stay in the country?Yeah, for sure. It’s like my worst nightmare. That’s why it’s always been trying to get corrected. Even if you got money, it ain’t easy. It ain’t no favoritism, and I respect it, I honestly respect it. It would be kind of messed up if they treated rich immigrants better than poor immigrants, I think.How draining was it being in detention, especially with the uncertainty of how long it was going to last?It really wasn’t jail, it was the possibility of me not being able to live in this country no more that I’ve been living in my whole life. All that just going through your head, like, “Damn, I love my house, I ain’t gonna be able to go in my house no more? I ain’t gonna be able to go to my favorite restaurant that I been going to for 20 years straight?” That’s the most important thing. If you tell me, “I’ll give you 20 million to go stay somewhere you ain’t never stayed,” I’d rather be broke. I’ll sit in jail to fight to live where I’ve been living my whole life.I’m sure you were spending a lot of time in your head.I could have made myself go crazy. I think they really try to break you. It’s like we gonna put you in jail and we gonna make you fight your case the slowest you can fight it so that you just want to go home. Nobody want to sit in jail, especially if they don’t have the money to fight it and they ain’t been to court in three months.What do you think has happened in your life that gave you a different perspective?It was what was at stake. It’s like, I got three kids, my mama, everything that I know is here in Atlanta. I’m not leaving Atlanta without a fight. We gon’ fight all the way till the last day even if that mean I sit in jail for 10 years.Were you upset about missing the Grammys?Nah, I was stressed about getting out. The Grammys is the Grammys, but when you in jail, the Grammys is nothing. I got to watch it. By that time they had put a TV in my room.Was the original plan that you’d be part of the Post Malone performance?Yeah I was supposed to perform. He wore the 21 Savage shirt, so I felt like I was there. I don’t care what nobody say — everybody in that building who’s connected to this culture, I was on their mind in some type of way. That’s all that mattered. They didn’t have to say it ’cause everybody knew it. It was in the air. All the people that was there, they said the words in other places and that matter just as much. All the big artists was vocal about the situation, so I was appreciative. Even the memes.They didn’t stress you out?Some of them was funny — I ain’t gonna lie. I was appreciative of that. I coulda been another person who just, “He locked up? Damn,” and nobody said nothing. Some people, I see why they was mad. It ain’t about the meme, it’s about the bigger picture. But I done been through way worse things in my life than somebody putting me on a meme. I been shot — what is a meme? A meme is nothing. That’s something on the internet that I can do like this [turns over phone] and never see again. I look at bullet scars every day, so it’s like, a meme, bro?Do you feel a responsibility to speak up about your circumstances?Yeah, I feel a responsibility. My situation is important ’cause I represent poor black Americans and I represent poor immigrant Americans. You gotta think about all the millions of people that ain’t 21 Savage that’s in 21 Savage shoes.Do you feel an urge to put some of this experience into music?Not right now, ’cause I feel like me putting it into music got me in this situation, kind of.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jan Ransom[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Everything Haya Konte had ever dreamed of for herself and for her family in America perished in a matter of minutes on April 13, 2016.That day, Ms. Konte, a young undocumented immigrant, stepped out of an apartment in the Butler Houses, a public housing complex in the Bronx, to get her two toddlers ice cream and to put clothes in the dryer at a laundromat across the street. She left the girls — aged 2 and 18 months — home alone with incense burning. She was under the mistaken impression a roommate was in the home at the time, she said.A fire tore through the apartment while she was out, killing both children. Ms. Konte was charged with criminally negligent homicide.“It’s a feeling I can’t forget,” Ms. Konte said, speaking publicly for the first time about her daughters’ deaths and the criminal charges that followed. “It’s something I will deal with for the rest of my life.”On Feb. 7, inside a third-floor courtroom at the Bronx Hall of Justice, Ms. Konte stood at the defense table flanked by her lawyer and an interpreter. Her head was dropped. Her shoulders were slumped forward. She tried to fight back tears, but failed.Between sobs, Ms. Konte, 29, pleaded guilty to two counts of criminally negligent homicide in the deaths of her daughters Jainabu Jabbie, 2, and Adama Jabbie, 18 months. As part of the no-prison plea deal, she also agreed to voluntarily leave the country. The guilty plea had taken more than two years to negotiate.The deaths of Jainabu and Adama rattled the city, but struck a particular nerve with a segment of working-class New Yorkers familiar with the challenges of juggling parenthood, work and routine responsibilities.The case also fed into a wider national debate over what constitutes negligence in the era of helicopter parenting. Some states, for instance, have passed laws making it illegal to leave a child alone at home or in a car. But others have pushed back, passing “free-range parenting” laws that set the bar higher for charging parents with neglect. Like many other states, child neglect laws in New York are broad and include any action that results in a child’s death or serious harm.The authorities have said no adult was present when the incense came in contact with a couch, sparking the blaze. One child was lying on the couch and another was sitting on the living room floor, she said.The Bronx district attorney’s office ultimately determined Ms. Konte’s actions went so far beyond what a reasonable parent would do to keep her children safe that she had committed a crime. “The loss of these two young girls is a devastating consequence of their mother’s seemingly innocuous actions,” the district attorney, Darcel D. Clark, said at the time.The Bronx district attorney’s office declined to comment on the decision not to seek a prison term. The offense is punishable by up to four years in prison.In an interview with The New York Times, Ms. Konte described being haunted by her decisions that day. Her life has unraveled since the fire, which also injured 10 other people, including three firefighters.Born in France, Ms. Konte was raised in a small village in Gambia. She was 23 when she arrived in New York in 2012, seeking a better life as she left behind a poor economy and an oppressive regime at home. She found work as an on-call hair braider in salons.She said she entered the United States with a passport. But she had remained in the country illegally, officials said.She said she had met a taxi driver, Bully Jabbie, online before arriving in the United States. They married, and their first child, Jainabu, was born in 2014.“Life was good,” Ms. Konte said through a translator at the Bronx mosque where she worships. “I was happy to be a mother.”But soon after the birth of their second child, Adama, Ms. Konte said her husband began to change. He stopped helping as much with the children, she said, and most of the child care fell to her.The family was sharing an apartment with a friend who allowed them to stay temporarily in a third-floor unit at the Butler Houses on Webster Avenue in the Claremont Village section of the Bronx. Ms. Konte, pregnant with their third child, said her husband had tried to find a new place for the family to live; when he failed to do so, it became a point of contention in their marriage.Ms. Konte said she remembers each detail from the day of the fire with raw clarity.She was four months pregnant. That morning, she had walked across the street to Webster Laundromat with her two daughters. She filled the washing machines with clothes before returning to the apartment.Once inside, Ms. Konte said Jainabu spotted an ice cream truck from the window. “Mommy, ice cream,” Ms. Konte recalled the little girl saying.She looked out the window, but the truck had left.That evening, a second ice cream truck pulled up in front of the building. Ms. Konte ran down to catch it, but she missed it, she said. Her husband, she said, was praying in a mosque.She then returned to the laundromat to put her clothes in the dryer, leaving the girls inside. Her imam, Musa Kabba, of Masjid Ar Rahmah, said she was away from the apartment for up to 40 minutes before fire trucks arrived. She said she rushed out of the laundromat at the sound of sirens and fainted at the sight of one of her daughters being carried out of the building by firefighters.“I couldn’t take it,” Ms. Konte said.The fire prompted intense debate on social media. Some expressed sympathy for Ms. Konte, saying the loss of her children was punishment enough for her carelessness, while others harshly criticized her as a mother and said she should be charged with a crime. There were no earlier reports of neglect, or complaints that she had left her children alone.For her part, Ms. Konte said the fire was an accident and that she loved her children. Her cousin, Mohamed Gumaneh, said, “If she knew this would happen she would not even do the laundry.”Since the fire, Ms. Konte and the daughter she was carrying at the time, who is now 2, have been living in a shelter in the South Bronx. Ms. Konte and her husband divorced last year.Ms. Konte arrived at court earlier this month with her daughter, who resembles Jainabu. The restless toddler looked on as Ms. Konte pleaded guilty for the deaths of her sisters.Christine Scaccia, a senior prosecutor in the Bronx district attorney’s office, told Justice Ralph Fabrizio in State Supreme Court that prosecutors had met with Ms. Konte’s ex-husband and he found the plea to be “acceptable.” Mr. Jabbie could not be reached for comment.Ms. Konte said during the interview that she felt rushed into making a decision to take the plea offer. She also said she had been scared about going to trial.Some community leaders and city officials questioned the Bronx district attorney’s decision to bring criminal charges against Ms. Konte.“There’s no punishment greater than what she actually lost,” Councilman Rory Lancman, a candidate for Queens district attorney, said, adding, “And the knowledge that she maybe could have prevented it. Why would banishment be appropriate? There’s no point to it.”Chris Gottlieb, co-director of the New York University Family Defense Clinic, said prosecutors had overreached. “Most of the time when parents lose a child we sympathize with them,” she said.But Mark A. Bederow, a defense lawyer and former Manhattan prosecutor, said as a legal matter it was clearly negligent for Ms. Konte to have left her two young children home alone. “The charges were appropriate,” he said.Ms. Clark was also criticized for not filing criminal charges against a public housing maintenance worker who provided false information in safety reports and lied about the smoke detectors in Ms. Konte’s apartment hours before the fire.Ms. Konte is expected back in court March 27 for sentencing.She has not decided where she and her daughter will go when they leave the country.“This disaster happened by mistake,” Mr. Kabba said. “She has faith that a better life is coming. I’m praying for her.”Follow Jan Ransom on Twitter: @Jan_Ransom AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del Real, Caitlin Dickerson and Miriam JordanTIJUANA, Mexico — Pushed beyond their limits by prolonged waits in dangerous and squalid conditions in parts of Northern Mexico, thousands of caravan members who had been waiting to seek asylum in the United States appear to have given up, Mexican officials said, dealing President Trump an apparent win after a humbling week for his immigration agenda.About 6,000 asylum seekers who had traveled en masse, many of them in defiance of Mr. Trump’s demands that they turn around, arrived in Northern Mexico in late November as part of a caravan that originated in Honduras. Since then, more than 1,000 have accepted an offer to be returned home by the Mexican government, the officials said. Another 1,000 have decided to stay in Mexico, accepting work permits that were offered to them last fall, at the height of international consternation over how to deal with the growing presence of migrant caravans.Mr. Trump resorted on Friday to declaring a national emergency after he failed to secure funding from Congress for a border wall that he said would block migrants from entering the United States. But the data from Mexican officials suggested that harsh policies he has introduced to crack down on asylum seekers may already be achieving some of its intended effects.Added this week to new policies that are bearing down on asylum seekers — which include tight limits on the number of people who can apply for the status each day and a heightened standard of proof to qualify — was the extension of a rule that certain asylum seekers must wait in Mexico for the full duration of their legal cases, which can take years.[Read the first edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The requirement originally applied only to adults, but the Department of Homeland Security expanded it to include families with children as well.Among those who have been dissuaded, at least for now, is Natali, 32, who asked to be identified only by her first name because she feared for her safety. Speaking from her modest apartment atop a steep hill in western Tijuana, she explained that she and her husband had fled their home in El Progreso, Honduras, after she witnessed a murder carried out by a local criminal gang. Soon after, she began to receive threats in the mail warning her to keep quiet.Once in Mexico, they heard about the increasingly long odds of receiving asylum in the United States, and feared more than anything that officials there would return them to their home country. Rather than crossing the border, they decided to seek humanitarian visas to remain in Mexico legally for at least one year, and have slowly begun to build a life.She still believes she might ask for asylum in the United States, but is realistic about her chances. “I like Tijuana,” she said. “It’s a very pretty city and there’s a lot of work.” More than anything, she fears the United States would deport her back to Honduras.Mexican officials said the data on people who have deferred or given up their quest for asylum in the United States reinforced an idea that is often raised by Mr. Trump: that many caravan members are not truly desperate for protection.“What happened is that many people came on an adventure, trying their luck,” said Cesar Palencia, Tijuana’s chief of migrant services. “When they realized that it was hard to cross and the conditions in Mexico were also difficult, among many factors, they decided to return home.”The Honduran caravan ballooned in size as it swept through impoverished villages, drawing a swarm of national media attention and an eclectic mix of participants. Many came from poverty, lacking education and resources, and said they were unfamiliar with the complex set of laws that would ultimately determine who would be granted legal status in the United States, and who would not.Immigrant advocates said that hype and false promises had attracted a group that was somewhat unrepresentative of typical asylum seekers. But they pointed to the roughly 4,000 members who had successfully entered the United States and had at least requested protected status to argue that most had legitimate claims.Michelle Brané, the director of migrant rights and justice at the Women’s Refugee Commission, warned that while Mr. Trump’s tough policies may discourage the undeserving, they might also endanger people who need protection. She said they would likely drive vulnerable migrants into the arms of human traffickers, who promise to provide passage into the United States.“It may look like it’s working in the short term,” Ms. Brané said, “But I don’t think it’s a long-term solution. It’s driving people further into the shadows and that’s exactly the opposite of what we want.”When they arrived in Mexico, many of the caravan members had been living in squalor, sleeping in tents or lean-tos inside the Benito Juárez sports complex. A downpour devastated the grounds, and those who remained fled to a new expansive shelter called Barretal on the outskirts of Tijuana. Once packed with 2,500 people, that location also recently closed because it had shrunk to fewer than 200.“It is not the same as when we had Barretal and Benito Juárez,” said Esme Flores, an immigrant-rights advocate at the San Diego office of the American Civil Liberties Union. “It really feels that the population has moved on.”On Friday, all that remained of the formerly bustling migrant quarter around the Barretal shelter was a small camp around the corner, only partially covered by a tin roof. The conditions are far from comfortable, but the occupants said it was better than sleeping on sidewalks.Most were not yet ready to give up trying to enter the United States, but knew of others who had. Elde Rodriguez, 26, said he had left Honduras hoping to send money back to his wife and daughter. Believing that he would not qualify for asylum, he tried last week to cross the border illegally but he and a friend were unable to find their away across and turned back.“There’s enough work here in Mexico, and you can live on that if you’re alone. But you can’t make enough to send money home, and that’s the point about all this,” he said. “If I can’t get in, I’ll just keep trying.”While Tijuana appears to be emptying, large groups of migrants have accumulated in other areas along the border as a result of the new policies. After a riot the day before, authorities in Mexico said on Friday that they would disband a group of 1,400 Central American asylum seekers who had been waiting in the city of Piedras Negras to cross the border into Eagle Pass, Tex., according to news reports.The Trump administration has said that the latest policy requiring asylum seekers to wait in Mexico, which it called Migrant Protection Protocols, is a vital response to a crisis at the border. Kirstjen Nielsen, secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, has said the policy aims to alleviate a humanitarian crisis on the border and secure the United States. Introduced as a pilot program across the border from San Diego, the administration plans to expand the policy into Texas.Border Patrol apprehensions of families along the southwest border remain near all-time highs, though there was a slight downward turn in January, as is often the case, according the latest government figures. Customs and Border Protection said more than 1,800 Central American parents and children crossed the border illegally on Monday, the largest number of families recorded on a single day. And like other asylum policies of this administration, the “remain in Mexico” policy has already drawn legal scrutiny, leaving its future uncertain.On Thursday, the American Civil Liberties Union and two other groups sued the administration on behalf of 11 asylum seekers who were required to wait in Mexico, claiming that the policy, which was introduced last month at the San Ysidro port of entry, near San Diego, violates United States and international laws.The lawsuit was filed in federal court in the Northern District of California on behalf of migrants from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador who feared for their lives in Mexico, according to the complaint.One of them was robbed at gunpoint and told by the assailant that he would be killed if he was seen again. Two others said that they had been threatened by local residents wielding rocks or sticks. Another plaintiff said he had to bribe a police officer to avoid arrest.“Asylum seekers in Mexico face a heightened risk of kidnapping, disappearance, trafficking, sexual assault and murder, among other harms,” said the complaint.In December, the A.C.L.U. successfully sued the administration over another new rule that became known as the “asylum ban” because it significantly restricted the locations where people could request the status. That policy remains enjoined by a federal court; the Supreme Court declined to reinstate it.Like members of the caravan, many of those who continue to come to the United States each day lack a comprehensive understanding of the system they are entering.Ela Marina Rodriguez, 49, and her daughter, Duña Ventura, 16, arrived in Tijuana about three weeks ago and were taken to the small shelter by a man whom they had been traveling with. Ms. Rodriguez said she had heard on the news that bringing her daughter would guarantee them admission into the United States, and the two thought if they could make it through the journey they would have an opportunity for a better life.“That’s why we came all this way,” she said. “I’ve dreamed of doing this my entire life but I was afraid. Hiding through the desert and the mountains, I never had the courage before, until we heard they were giving papers to families.”Her eyes grew wide when she heard from a reporter that some asylum seekers are being made to wait in Mexico. She sighed heavily and replied: “I don’t know. I don’t know. I don’t want to be here.”Ms. Rodriguez said that “honestly, yes” she would cross illegally if that is what it takes to get into the United States. But if she is unable to gain entry to the United States, she said, she would likely turn back to Honduras. “I mean, what else can you do in that case?”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Frances RoblesTwo millionaire fugitives from Ecuador, whose family poured hundreds of thousands of dollars into American political campaigns as they fought to stay in the United States, were arrested last week in Miami by immigration authorities, officials said.Roberto and William Isaías, 74 and 75, were taken on Wednesday to a detention facility where undocumented immigrants are held pending deportation, according to the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.It was not immediately clear what prompted the authorities to make the arrests, but ICE’s statement said the brothers were “unlawfully present” in the United States.The Isaías brothers, bankers vilified in Ecuador for increasing their wealth in the late 1990s just as their bank collapsed — wiping out tens of thousands of customers’ savings — were convicted of embezzlement by a court there in 2012. They were sentenced to prison terms in absentia, having arrived in South Florida almost a decade earlier.The brothers have vehemently denied accusations that they looted their bank, and said that the Ecuadorean government had politicized the case and unfairly seized their assets. They are still battling in the courts to recover their properties at home.Ecuador has estimated that the brothers cost the country $400 million, and has for years sought their extradition. At one point, even the American ambassador in Ecuador lobbied for their prompt return, accusing the men of financing a $2 million bribe to get Ecuador’s attorney general to drop the case.As their criminal case heated up in Ecuador, the cash started flowing  in the United States. The Isaías brothers’ relatives donated tens of thousands dollars to members of the United States Congress, and  $90,000 to help re-elect President Barack Obama.A year after the donation to the Obama campaign, the Department of Justice rejected Ecuador’s extradition request, saying it lacked sufficient proof.The Ecuadorean government later accused Washington of denying its request in exchange for checks. The Obama administration said the donations had nothing to do with its decisions.A renewed request for extradition is pending, said Alvin B. Davis, the Ecuadorean government’s lawyer in Miami. The Department of Justice referred questions to ICE.The Isaías brothers are now expected to appear for a deportation hearing in immigration court, said Nestor J. Yglesias, a spokesman for ICE.Mr. Davis said the government of Ecuador, having won a civil case in Florida against the brothers, is preparing to fight for some $1.3 billion in damages. The arrest left him “gratified,” he said.“They need to be held responsible after all these years,” Mr. Davis said.The Isaías’s lawyer in Ecuador, Jorge Zavala Egas, referred questions about the arrest to a South Florida publicist, Alfredo J. Balsera.Contacted by phone, Mr. Balsera said The New York Times had acted in “bad faith” in previous articles about the Isaías case and declined to comment.In a 2014 interview, Roberto Isaías denied asking for favors in exchange for political donations.“My family has given to about 20 congressmen who fight for human rights and freedom of speech in Latin America,” he said. “That’s legal.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.A lot has been made of the new Democratic majority in the House. They’re young. Female. Diverse. Outspoken.All the focus on Democrats made us curious about what being in the new Congress looks like from the other side of the aisle.Representative Dan Crenshaw, a former Navy SEAL with no prior experience in elected office, has emerged as one of the stars of the new Republican class. He survived a crowded primary race and a runoff for the Republican nomination last year, en route to winning his Houston-area district.But real fame came shortly after the election, when Mr. Crenshaw, who wears an eye patch because of an injury he suffered in Afghanistan, appeared on “Saturday Night Live” to rebut the comedian Pete Davidson, who had mocked Mr. Crenshaw as looking like a “hit man from a porno movie.” The two offered a sincere plea for civility, and a political star was born.Since then, Mr. Crenshaw’s staunch support for President Trump’s border wall and his fiery presence on social media have some Republicans calling him the conservative answer to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.We recently talked with Mr. Crenshaw about the wall, social media and civility in politics. The interview was conducted before Mr. Trump agreed on a border deal, but we decided to leave in those parts of the conversation, because the debate over the wall isn’t going away anytime soon. As usual, our interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.Lisa: You came into Congress in the middle of the shutdown. Was that frustrating? I mean, you’re here to make a difference, presumably, and you enter in a stalemate. Dan Crenshaw: The frustrating part for me is why we were shut down. You can’t just be mad at a shutdown. You do have to take a side. And in the end, this shutdown boils down to $5 billion over basically extending the authorizations we’ve had in the past. That’s what’s frustrating, that we’re actually arguing over that.Well, it’s about the wall, right? Sure. To me, it’s frustrating that we can’t come to a deal. I mean, the idea of a government shutdown, it’s a consequence of our system. The president is under no obligation to sign the spending bills that Congress gives to him. And once that happens, once he says no, then you’re supposed to negotiate. So the frustrating part was to see how the Democrats refused to negotiate.That didn’t really make it out into the media very much because — I mean, we can say it all we want, but the media, generally speaking, the CNN pundits and The New York Times, will generally call it the “Trump shutdown,” because he owned it initially. I get that. But once he owned it, he asked to negotiate, and I think that’s a pretty fair ask. He did not have anyone to negotiate with. So that was frustrating, to watch that play out from the inside.Now, it looks like maybe the deal will be less money for the wall, or some kind of fencing.The semantics over wall versus fencing, first of all, are highly misleading. Trump’s plan has been what normal people would describe as fencing for a long time now. I get that he still calls it a wall. But that’s because in our English language a normal person would go up to what we have on the border right now and say it’s a wall, or a fence, and they’d both be right.What we’re actually talking about is steel bollard fencing. Again, it’s a mass misinformation campaign by the other side on this. And that’s been amplified by a lot of the media, is that we’re just talking about 2,000 miles of, like, concrete wall. It’s so unbelievably false.I want like a giant reset button to be like, “O.K., let’s start the debate over,” because I wasn’t here when we started the debate. Now I am. I’d like us to be very honest about what we’re talking about.Sounds like you’re describing a messaging problem for Republicans. I don’t have all the answers, but I think the way I’d describe the right way to message is to help people understand the “why” behind the “what.” It’s like, why do I believe we need extra fencing down the southern border? And in a deeper “why” than just, “Hey, it’s security and murders and crime.” Some of that’s true, but it leads us into a debate about how much crime and how much drugs.The “why” is: We enforce our laws, and because we believe in our own sovereignty, and I believe that illegal immigrants shouldn’t be able to cut in front of legal immigrants. That’s a better “why.”Traditionally in Washington, there was an idea that as a new member you come in and keep a low profile. You — and other freshmen — are clearly taking a different approach. Why? There was no, like, decision point. They listen to me because I just have a large following, and yeah, I got famous on national TV.There’s a sequence of events that drew us here. It’s like, you know, why is A.O.C. [Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez] famous? It’s just that story of beating Joe Crowley. Once that hooks people, and you’ve got that following, that’s sort of self-perpetuating. There isn’t really a rule, necessarily, that the leadership tries to keep freshmen from talking.You’ve used some of that platform to call for a return to civility. What does that look like for you? It just looks like, don’t question the other people’s character.You can be pretty sharp, particularly on Twitter.Yeah, I can be sharp. But what I never say is, you know — let me give an example of what they do to us all the time. “You can’t say that because you’re a white Christian man.” That’s not civil. That’s avoiding the debate of ideas and attacking a person because of who they are. That’s not O.K.I will attack ideas very hard. I am not shy about that one bit. So I don’t want people to think that because I had a call for civility that that means I shy away from debate and that I’m agreeable. That’s not the case. What is the case is that I will not question who you are as a person.You can say that your ideas are bad for America, and frankly un-American, but don’t say the person is a traitor. That’s the line that we should aspire to, at least in the short term.Do you think the president crosses that line?Well, let’s see. I’m trying to think of some examples.Lyin’ Ted, Liddle Marco, Horseface. I can keep going.Yeah. Those are examples. Sure.So name-calling, in general, is bad, and then what I see from the other side is like, if you’re calling someone a racist, bigot, homophobe — and they have their list, right? And that’s terrible. You know what, with everything happening in Virginia right now, are we all on social media calling him a racist? No, actually, we’re saying you did something racist. See, that’s the difference. To say someone is a racist, versus saying you did something or said something that could be perceived as racist.You think there’s a way to unwind this new tone?Just be part of the solution and not part of the problem. That’s the only way.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter from The Times about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________One of our biggest pet peeves at On Politics is the way stories often seem to fade away, without any follow-up. With that in mind, we wanted to update you on some topics we’ve recently written about.• Virginia’s troubled governor, Ralph Northam, has clung to his seat despite pressure to resign over a racist photo found on his yearbook page. Now, a set of new polls shows that he may survive the scandal. In two new surveys of Virginians (here and here), a plurality say Mr. Northam should stay in office, and even more oppose impeaching the governor. The voters were more divided over whether Lt. Gov. Justin E. Fairfax, accused of sexually assaulting two women, should resign.•  Breaking news today from North Carolina: After days of testimony about an alleged scheme to tamper with absentee votes in a congressional race, state officials have ordered a new election. The decision came after Mark Harris, the Republican candidate whose apparent victory was under investigation, called for a do-over.• Two weeks ago, Lisa Friedman, a climate reporter at The Times, gave us a rundown of the Green New Deal. Today, Lisa published a deep look into the details of the plan, exploring its plausibility. What did she find? The far-reaching plan is “within the realm of technological possibility,” experts say. But it will take “extensive sacrifices that people are only starting to understand.” Read the article here.•  In our newsletter this week about Bernie Sanders’s entrance into the 2020 race, we mentioned that he was starting off with a huge advantage in the size of his donor base. Well, it seems that has already paid off — to the tune of $6 million in donations in his first day. For comparison, the second-biggest debut this year was Kamala Harris, with $1.5 million on her first day.____________________This is The Soapbox, a forum for you to share your thoughts with us and your fellow On Politics readers. In today’s edition, readers sound off on Bernie Sanders’s decision to run for president again.Teresa Monley wrote in to explain why she still supports Mr. Sanders:If we had Medicare for All, affordable college costs, were on our way to rebuilding the Middle Class, then I would say: Good job, sir. No need for you to run. We are not even close yet. He pulled the party to a place where they recognize the plight of most of the population. He started a movement.His ideas are resonating with the great majority of Americans. We are not radical, but quite pragmatic. So is Bernie. He’s a teacher and a leader. That’s why I’m supporting him.Bonnie H., in Washington, said Mr. Sanders’s energy would be better spent elsewhere:So many wonderful candidates running in 2020. Sorry Bernie, you are a spoiler, too old and will further divide the party as you did in 2016. Let’s all move on. Work your magic in the new Democratic Senate in 2020!Victor Lidz, from Pennsylvania, said he was concerned by Mr. Sanders’s age:Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden may be reluctant to acknowledge their ages and the inevitable limitations on their capacities to serve as president. However, the country would be ill-advised to entrust the powers of the presidency to individuals who will enter their 80s during a first term. I write as an academic approaching 80 myself, still in good health and retaining my capacities well enough to teach, write, and participate in conferences. Yet, I know of my impending limitations and Sanders and Biden should recognize theirs as well. The Democratic Party has younger, vigorous, and creative candidates. It is time for their elders to relinquish leadershipAnd Monica D’Amore, from New Jersey, said Mr. Sanders’s flaw was in his approach:Not everyone gets a rush from statistics. The Dems (and Bernie) must learn how to modify their rhetoric to appeal to the common man. The campaign trail is a place to persuade, and that’s difficult to do when you’re making people feel stupid.In my opinion, people want to be spoken to in language that they can relate to. Many feel that Hillary talks down to us — in other words, she’s talking to Lisa, but most of the voters are Bart. I’ve been listening to sound bites of Bernie’s announcement to run and I cringe at hearing the same old song: Statistic Reprisal.If you want to share your thoughts, send us an email: onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________• China collected millions of its citizens’ DNA in a campaign of surveillance and oppression. The government was helped by a Massachusetts company and a prominent Yale researcher.• What would the Oscars be without a little drama? Here’s a handy guide to the controversies that followed the best picture nominees, from the problematic (“Bohemian Rhapsody”) to the placid (“Black Panther”).• The Washington Post profiles the self-help author and Oprah spiritual adviser Marianne Williamson, who wants to win the White House with love, healing and a dose of political group therapy.____________________Bernie may be getting up there in age, but the man can still shoot some hoops. Check out this highlight reel one of his supporters cut._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFact Check of the DayThe president showcased a video of construction on Twitter, but the work he highlighted was from funds previously allocated to replace damaged fencing.By Michael TackettPresident Trump has been eager to show progress on construction of his long-promised wall on the border with Mexico. So eager that on Wednesday he sent a tweet showing the building of steel fencing in southern New Mexico with the video sped up to add a sense of both efficiency and urgency.He retweeted himself on Thursday with the all-caps proclamation “THE WALL IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION RIGHT NOW!” This is misleading.The government has built about 700 miles of wall and fencing along the border since 2006. The barriers, damaged by migrants trying to get through them or by the elements, need periodic repairs.The section of the barrier that Mr. Trump showcased this week was not new construction, but rather replacement for existing fencing. The money for the steel-slatted barrier came from a congressional appropriation in 2017, not from newly authorized spending in the recent deal that averted a government shutdown, or from money the president is seeking to take from other federal projects under his national emergency declaration from last week.A construction contract for the replacement bollard fencing was awarded on Jan. 22, 2018, to a company in Montana, according to a news release from United States Customs and Border Protection. “The area of the border wall replacement will be a 20-mile section of existing vehicle barrier located just west of the Santa Teresa Port of Entry and extending westward” in New Mexico, the release said. “The existing barrier will be replaced with an 18- to 30-foot-high bollard-style wall.”The contract called for the project to be completed in about 390 days. The agency also highlighted the benefits of the see-through characteristics of the bollard wall.Mr. Trump noted that the project finished ahead of schedule.Whether there will be new wall or fence construction in that area is an open question. New Mexico is among the states suing the Trump administration to challenge his emergency declaration.Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email factcheck@nytimes.com.Michael Tackett covers national politics. He has written about politics for more than 30 years and has covered six presidential elections.  @tackettdc AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHow Trump's incompetent power grabs are actually weakening the imperial presidency.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistIn Barack Obama’s second term, with his legislative agenda dead in a Republican-controlled Congress, the president turned to executive unilateralism on an innovative scale. On climate regulation and health care he used the presidential pen to pursue policies denied him by Congress, and on immigration he made a more dramatic leap — claiming a power he himself had previously abjured, and offering a provisional legal status to about half the illegal-immigrant population.At the time I called this “caesarism” — an attempt to arrogate to the imperial presidency the kind of power over domestic policy that it already claims over foreign and military affairs. And because the decay of republics is an iterative process, where each faction builds on the norm-breaking of its rivals, it was fairly obvious — well, to me, if not to his supporters — that Obama’s caesarism helped stoke the caudillo appeal of Donald Trump, who promised a cruder version of the same impatient executive ambition.Now, that caudillo spirit is taking legal form in Trump’s most serious power grab to date: the attempt to use a “national emergency” declaration — a power whose chronic abuse by presidents Congress has never bestirred itself to check — to build the border fencing that the Democratic Party and his own political impotence have denied him.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]On the merits, anyone who opposed Obama’s moves should oppose this one as well. The scale of the policy change is smaller, but the defiance of Congress is more overt; the legal foundation might be slightly firmer (as Jell-O is slightly firmer than a pudding) but the bad faith involved in the “emergency” claim is more extreme.And in general, serious conservatives are opposing Trump. Vox co-founder Matthew Yglesias recently snarked about right-wing pundits who got “overheated about ‘Caesarism’ and ‘caudillos’” in the Obama era, mentioning me and National Review editor Rich Lowry as examples. But Lowry has written sharply against the emergency declaration, and I’ll happily endorse his point: If Obama was abusing his powers, then clearly so is Trump.But in terms of the general lure of presidential rule, the general declension of republican norms into imperial habits, I also think Trump’s caudillo act is substantially less dangerous than what his predecessors did.Here I differ not only from liberals who misremember Obama as a punctilious norm-respecter, but also from those conservatives fretting that Trump is establishing a precedent for a future liberal president to impose a Green New Deal by fiat. Not that they won’t be so tempted — but I just can’t imagine anyone looking at the political train wreck of Trump’s unilateralism and seeing a precedent worth invoking.For presidential power to meaningfully expand, it is not enough for a president to simply make a power grab. That grab needs to unite his party (ideally it would also divide the opposition), it needs to be cloaked in enough piety and deniability to find support from would-be referees, it needs to appear to be politically successful, and finally it needs to be ratified by the other branches of government, if only by their inaction.This mostly happened with the post-9/11 war powers claimed by George W. Bush’s administration: There was pushback and resistance, but many Democrats went along, Bush won re-election, and much of his war-on-terror architecture was adopted and expanded by the Obama administration.Obama’s attempt to play Caesar in domestic policy had more mixed results, since the immigration power grab was tied up by the courts until Trump’s election rendered some of it a dead letter. But Obama at least persuaded Democrats and the media to go along with his caesarism, and he established precedents that a President Hillary Clinton would have undoubtedly embraced.With Trump, though, the only clear precedent being set is one of deplorable incompetence. He’s taking unpopular action that divides his party and unites the opposition, he’s doing so with a combination of brazen hypocrisy and nonsense rhetoric that makes the power grab impossible to cloak, he’s guaranteeing himself an extended legal battle — and he isn’t even accomplishing any obvious goal (there’s a reason real immigration restrictionists are against this plan) except the personal one of saving a tiny bit of face.This spectacle will not prevent some future president from abusing an emergency declaration more effectively. But the idea that Trump’s grab enables future abuses more than the moves that Bush and Obama made is extremely dubious. If anything, precisely because his contempt for constitutional limits is so naked and his incompetence so stark, Trump has (modestly, modestly) weakened the imperial presidency by generating somewhat more pushback than his predecessors.So the emergency declaration is not itself a constitutional emergency. Rather, as often in the Trump presidency, it’s a moment that illuminates how a more dangerous would-be autocrat might someday act. It’s a weird foretaste, not the main event. A warning, not a crisis. A clownish interlude in the republic’s decline, not the Rubicon itself.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Charlie Savage and Robert PearWASHINGTON — A coalition of 16 states, including California and New York, on Monday challenged President Trump in court over his plan to use emergency powers to spend billions of dollars on his border wall.The lawsuit is part of a constitutional confrontation that Mr. Trump set off on Friday when he declared that he would spend billions of dollars more on border barriers than Congress had granted him. The clash raises questions over congressional control of spending, the scope of emergency powers granted to the president, and how far the courts are willing to go to settle such a dispute.The suit, filed in Federal District Court in San Francisco, argues that the president does not have the power to divert funds for constructing a wall along the Mexican border because it is Congress that controls spending.[Read the full lawsuit here.]Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, said in an interview that the president himself had undercut his argument that there was an emergency on the border.“Probably the best evidence is the president’s own words,” he said, referring to Mr. Trump’s speech on Feb. 15 announcing his plan: “I didn’t need to do this, but I’d rather do it much faster.”Here’s how President Trump’s border wall fits on the list of emergency declarations.The lawsuit, California et al. v. Trump et al., says that the plaintiff states are going to court to protect their residents, natural resources and economic interests. “Contrary to the will of Congress, the president has used the pretext of a manufactured ‘crisis’ of unlawful immigration to declare a national emergency and redirect federal dollars appropriated for drug interdiction, military construction and law enforcement initiatives toward building a wall on the United States-Mexico border,” the lawsuit says.Congress is on its own separate track to challenge the president’s declaration. The House of Representatives, now controlled by Democrats, may take a two-prong approach when it returns from a recess. One would be to bring a lawsuit of its own.Lawmakers could also vote to override the declaration that an emergency exists, but it is doubtful that Congress has the votes to override Mr. Trump’s certain veto, leaving the courts a more likely venue.Joining California and New York are Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon and Virginia. All have Democratic governors but one — Maryland, whose attorney general is a Democrat — and most have legislatures controlled by Democrats.[Read the first edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The dispute stems from steps Mr. Trump said he would take after lawmakers granted him only $1.375 billion for new border barriers, legislation he signed last week to avoid another government shutdown.Mr. Trump asserted the power to tap three additional pots of money on his own: $600 million from a Treasury Department asset forfeiture fund for law enforcement priorities; about $2.5 billion from a military antidrug account, most of which would first be siphoned from other military programs the Pentagon has yet to identify; and $3.6 billion in military construction funds he said he could redirect by invoking an emergency-powers statute.Presidents have invoked emergency-powers statutes nearly five dozen times since Congress enacted the National Emergencies Act of 1976, but never before has one been used to make an end-run around Congress after it rejected funding for a particular policy.But as the debate over Mr. Trump’s action shifts to courtrooms, legal experts warned that its fate may turn less on such high constitutional principle and more on complex legal issues — from whether plaintiffs can establish that the case is properly before the courts, to how to interpret several statutes.“Even though Trump’s political maneuver to get around an uncooperative Congress looks like it stretches the Constitution, the questions presented in court will raise ordinary and complicated issues of administrative law,” said Peter M. Shane, an Ohio State University law professor and co-author of a separation-of-powers casebook.Two cases had already been filed after Mr. Trump’s announcement on Feb. 15 — one by the nonprofit watchdog group Public Citizen, representing several Texas landowners and a Texas environmental group, and the other a case jointly brought by the Center for Biological Diversity, Defenders of Wildlife and the Animal Legal Defense Fund.At least two other lawsuits are expected to be filed later this week. The American Civil Liberties Union has announced its intention to file a case, but has not yet publicly identified its client. The other case will be brought by Protect Democracy, another watchdog group, and the Niskanen Center, a center-right policy institute, on behalf of El Paso County and the Border Network for Human Rights.Many critics have challenged whether an emergency truly exists on the Southern border that a wall would solve, pointing to government data showing that the number of people crossing illegally has dropped significantly over the past generation and that most drugs are smuggled through ports of entry.The president has argued, without proof, that the emergency declaration is warranted because the migrants “invading” the United States across the Mexico border have caused epidemics of crime and drug use.Legal specialists expected the Justice Department to urge a court not to consider facts about the border or Mr. Trump’s words, but rather to defer to the president’s decision. The courts have a long history of being reluctant to substitute their own judgment for the president’s about a security threat.The Trump administration will have a powerful argument to invoke: In the National Emergencies Act, Congress defined no standard for what conditions have to be met before a president may determine that a qualifying crisis exists.But before a judge could weigh whether Mr. Trump invoked the statute legitimately, he or she would have to decide whether the dispute is properly before the court in the first place.Plaintiffs will need to establish standing by showing that they are suffering some particular injury from what Mr. Trump is doing. Several of the lawsuits involve people who own land or represent communities along the Mexican border in Texas, where Mr. Trump has put the focus of his emphasis on the need for more barriers.But it is not clear whether any of the fencing will be built in California or New Mexico, two of the states in the lawsuit, and it certainly will not be built in other states involved in the litigation, like New York, New Jersey or Hawaii.Mr. Becerra, California’s attorney general, suggested that plaintiffs in the states’ lawsuits have standing for reasons that are unrelated to whether any portions of Mr. Trump’s wall will be built in their territory, arguing that “the president’s unconstitutional action could cause harms in many parts of the country.”Here’s what we know about what’s happening at the border.People in California and other plaintiff states could “lose funding that they paid for with their tax dollars, money that was destined for drug interdiction or for the Department of Defense for military men and women and military installations,” he said in the interview.Further complicating matters, the administration has said it intends to spend the funds in sequence, starting with the $1.375 billion Congress appropriated, and reaching the emergency-power military-construction fund last. The Justice Department is likely to argue that if no disputed spending is imminent, the case is not ripe for litigation and should be dismissed.Ian Bassin, the executive director of Protect Democracy, said that El Paso County would probably argue that its economy was being harmed by Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration because it wrongfully signaled to businesses and potential tourists that they should stay away.The Justice Department declined to comment on the wave of lawsuits. Mr. Trump has said he expected to be sued and to lose in lower courts, but he predicted he would eventually prevail before the Supreme Court.But plaintiffs can also challenge whether the administration is interpreting several statutes correctly.The provision that gives the secretary of defense authority to transfer some Pentagon money into the antidrug account Mr. Trump is then planning to tap, for example, says its authority may be used “in no case where the item for which funds are requested has been denied by the Congress” — raising the question of whether extra funding for border barriers counts as such a forbidden item.And the emergency-powers statute Mr. Trump plans to use permits military construction spending in an emergency that requires the use of the armed forces for projects “to support such use.” That has been used before to build up foreign military bases in a war effort, but litigants challenge whether a permanent wall to help civilian agencies police the border qualifies under that wording.“Judges will certainly be aware of the larger institutional context when they address those technical issues, but that awareness will not, by itself, determine how the legal questions get resolved,” Mr. Shane said.An earlier version of this article misidentified one of the states involved in the litigation. Washington State is not a party to the suit.Sheryl Stolberg contributed reporting.Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe young in particular are slipping away.By Sean McElwee, Brian F. Schaffner, Jesse H. Rhodes and Bernard L. FragaThe authors are political data experts.Ever since Donald Trump’s upset victory over Hillary Clinton in 2016, much of the media attention has been on how Democrats need to reconsider their strategy for winning voters in future elections, particularly Obama-to-Trump voters. But the results of the 2018 midterm elections suggest that Republicans have some soul-searching to do as well.They lost the popular vote in six of the last seven presidential elections and suffered battering losses in the House in 2018. Republican strategists must grapple with how to keep their party viable nationally, and our data suggests that Trumpism may continue to hurt them in the future.It has flown under the radar a bit, masked perhaps by the switch of millions of Barack Obama’s voters into Mr. Trump’s column, but in 2016 Mr. Trump did not receive support from a large segment of voters who pulled the lever for Mitt Romney in 2012. In fact, our data shows that 5 percent of Romney 2012 voters stayed home in 2016, while another 5 percent voted for Mrs. Clinton. These voters tended to be female, nonwhite, younger and more highly educated — the very voters Republicans feared would be alienated by a Trump victory when he was seeking the party’s nomination.Most strikingly, one-third of 2012 Romney voters who were under 40 in 2016 did not vote for Mr. Trump, but rather stayed home, voted for Mrs. Clinton or voted for a third-party candidate. Among the under-40 Romney voters who supported Mr. Trump in 2016, 16 percent appear to have defected from the party to vote for a Democratic House candidate in 2018. Of course, we don’t know how they will vote in 2020, but what this means is that in the past two elections Republicans may have lost more than 40 percent of Romney voters born after 1976.Republican House candidates performed worse among 18- to 39-year-olds than they have in decades. The voters Mr. Trump and his party lost in 2016 and 2018 represent the future of American politics. If the Republican Party becomes the party of the past — that is, of aging white men with less education — it could make winning elections increasingly difficult.The younger the voter, the more likely they were to defect from the Republican Party.2016 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION2018 HOUSE ELECTIONSPercentage of Trump voters who did not vote for Republicans.Percentage of 2012 Romney voters, by age, who did not vote for Trump.AGE IN 2016:AGE IN 2018:7%7%8789DEFECTED FROM G.O.P.78797771067699115759101449471624373920372927422024222016 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION2018 HOUSE ELECTIONSPercentage of 2012 Romney voters, by age, who did not vote for Trump.Percentage of Trump voters who did not vote for Republicans.AGE IN2016:AGE IN2018:7%7%8789DEFECTED FROM G.O.P.7879777106769911575910144947162437392037292742202422By The New York Times | Source: analysis of the 2016-18 Cooperative Congressional Election Study by Sean McElwee, Brian F. Schaffner, Jesse H. Rhodes and Bernard L. FragaTo explore the characteristics and attitudes of these voters, we used data from the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, a large survey with a sample of more than 64,000 adults. We focus on three groups in this essay: Romney-to-Trump voters, Romney-to-Clinton voters and Romney-to-nonvoters. (We used validated voter turnout data rather than self-reported turnout, which tends to overstate actual voter participation.) Four primary characteristics distinguished deserters from the 2012 Romney coalition: gender, race, level of education and age.Defectors were disproportionately women; 63 percent of Romney-to-Clinton voters were female compared with 46 percent of Romney-to-Trump voters. Romney-to-nonvoters were 54 percent female.Perhaps unsurprisingly, given Mr. Trump’s rhetoric, Mr. Trump shed a large share of 2012 Romney voters of color — precisely the type of voters that Republicans have been struggling to attract for some time. Among Romney-to-Trump voters, 91 percent were white (the breakdown for Romney-to-nonvoters was very similar, with 89 percent white). However, among Romney-to-Clinton voters, the nonwhite share was twice as large, 20 percent.Mr. Trump also lost support from Romney-supporting college-educated voters. While only one in four Romney-to-Trump voters had a college degree, 39 percent of Romney-to-Clinton voters did, and 31 percent of Romney-to-nonvoters were college-educated.Crucially, the Trump campaign alienated a lot of younger-to-middle-aged voters who had turned out for Mr. Romney in 2012. Four percent of Romney-to-Trump voters were under 30 years old in 2016. In contrast, 18 percent of Romney-to-Clinton voters were under 30, as were 21 percent of Romney-to-nonvoters. Each of these patterns should raise red flags for Republicans, even more so after 18- to 29-year-olds went from supporting Mrs. Clinton by a 25-point margin in 2016 to supporting House Democrats by a 44-point margin in 2018, according to the voter file firm Catalist. But it is the graying of the Republican coalition that is arguably the biggest threat to the party’s prospects. It is true that on average, older people are more reliable voters than younger people. But the partisan identities and voting behaviors that people adopt early in the life cycle tend to stick, becoming routines that people carry on for the remainder of their lives. In addition, according to Data for Progress research, 30 percent of millennial Republicans prefer the Republican Party over Mr. Trump “somewhat” or “strongly,” while 65 percent prefer Mr. Trump “somewhat” or “strongly” (compared with 80 percent of boomer Republicans and 81 percent of so-called silent Republicans).Can Republicans solve their demographic problem? A look at issue preferences indicates wooing back defectors will be difficult. On crucial issues facing the country, Romney-to-Clinton voters, Romney-to-nonvoters and Americans over all hold positions that are relatively far from Romney-to-Trump voters.Take two issues that have become central to Mr. Trump’s presidency: immigration and trade. Seventy-four percent of Romney-to-Trump voters support deporting undocumented immigrants, but only 35 percent of Romney-to-Clinton voters (and 62 percent of Romney-to-nonvoters) do. The average citizen is in between Romney-to-Clinton voters and Romney-to-nonvoters, with 44 percent supporting deportation.Similarly, while 27 percent of Romney-to-Trump voters supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership, 63 percent of Romney-to-Clinton voters (and 53 percent of Romney-to-nonvoters) did. In short, the 2012 Romney voters who did not vote for Mr. Trump have views that are pretty distant from the emerging Republican consensus that drove Mr. Trump’s victory and has been a central component of his presidency.Mr. Trump may have won the White House with a thin margin built on winning over just enough Obama voters in the right places. But this victory may ultimately have come at the expense of the Republican Party’s long-term electoral prospects. To win some of the Romney coalition back, Republicans would need to moderate their stances on some key issues, like immigration and trade, and, of course, exactly the opposite is happening. Republican strategists will continue to work to expand on Mr. Trump’s success, but their task will get harder and harder if Mr. Trump continues to move the party away from public opinion. Sean McElwee (@SeanMcElwee) is a co-founder of Data for Progress. Brian F. Schaffner (@b_schaffner) is a political scientist at Tufts. Jesse H. Rhodes (@JesseRhodesPS) is a political scientist at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Bernard L. Fraga (@blfraga) is a political scientist at Indiana University.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHelp fix these broken countries so fleeing north won’t seem so urgent.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.As thousands of families fleeing violence, poverty and oppression in Central America arrive at the American border, the Trump administration has responded by separating children and parents and cracking down on asylum claims.A more humane, and effective, response would be to address the sources of the desperation that propelled these people north. President Trump chose on Monday to reaffirm his punitive bent, complaining about the exodus of migrants and saying he told the leaders of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, whose countries receive millions of dollars in annual aid, “We’re not sending it anymore.” But what if the United States truly prioritized helping these nations?Plagued by corruption, violence and gang terror, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras need stronger and more honest judges and police officers, better schools and economic development. Elites control much of the land and avoid taxes, even at some of the lowest tax rates in Latin America. Bribery is rampant, and too often leaders lack the interest, competence or will to manage such problems. Over the years, the United States has contributed to instability by supporting autocrats in civil wars and tolerating corruption that has bred criminality. In 2017, Washington recognized the results of the Honduran presidential election days after the Organization of American States called for new elections because of voting irregularities.The United States has also invested in Latin America for decades to promote democracy and economic and social development. But the Trump administration has begun to place “more emphasis on preventing illegal immigration, combating transnational crime and generating export and investment opportunities for U.S. businesses,” according to a report last month by the Congressional Research Service, which does nonpartisan research for Congress.While the administration has tried to scale back aid, Congress has resisted, appropriating $2.1 billion for the region from 2016 to 2018, roughly double what had previously been allocated.Results are mixed: While murder rates in El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras declined in 2018, they are still very high, fueled by the trafficking of 90 percent of the cocaine bound for the United States. Economic growth has been steady since 2014, but poverty rates are relatively unchanged. While officials have pursued criminal cases involving presidents and other leaders, opposition from political and economic interests threatens to upend their work.But there are reasons for hope: A 2014 study found that community-based programs to reduce crime and violence in Central America, run by the United States Agency for International Development, reported 19 percent fewer robberies and 51 percent fewer murders. Other programs, also funded mainly through U.S.A.I.D. and the State Department, help vet police officers, get them to work more closely with communities, identify youth prone to violence and work to change their behavior. Prosecutors and judges are being given training and technical assistance on managing cases and gathering evidence; journalists, activists and civil society groups are being counseled in how to protect themselves from threats. Other programs seek to make the civil service more professional, help subsistence farmers diversify their crops and increase yields and connect regional electric grids.`Eradicating gangs, which drive much of the northward migration, is especially difficult. The International Crisis Group has warned that mass deportations from the United States risk fueling gang violence unless accompanied by serious economic investment in impoverished communities. Just subjecting gang members to harsh prisons and branding them terrorists has backfired, the group said.In the end, it is Central American leaders who must carry out reforms. They are more apt to do that with international support. But America can slow the exodus of the desperate by investing in democracy, judicial reform and economic growth. So far, Mr. Trump has shown little interest.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jon CaramanicaALPHARETTA, Ga. — At the beginning of the year, 21 Savage was at his commercial apex. His second album, “I Am > I Was,” spent two weeks atop the Billboard album chart. “Rockstar,” his collaboration with Post Malone, was nominated for two Grammys, and he was set to perform at the ceremony.But now he has a new, perhaps even higher-profile public role: To his supporters, he’s a possible martyr of conscience, under fire for his choice to express his political views in his music.A week before the Grammys, 21 Savage was arrested in Atlanta and put into removal proceedings by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which said he was an “unlawfully present United Kingdom national” and charged him with overstaying his visa. A week and a half later, he was released on $100,000 bond.21 Savage — birth name She’yaa bin Abraham-Joseph — was, unknown to most, born in London in 1992, and an undocumented immigrant in the United States. That alone makes him vulnerable to removal by the immigration authorities.But in an interview earlier this month, two of his attorneys — Dina LaPolt, his general counsel, and Charles Kuck, his immigration attorney — proposed that there might have been political motivations at play.Three days before 21 Savage’s arrest on Feb. 3, LaPolt was already putting an action plan in motion. “We had heard that they were looking at him,” she said.In late January, 21 Savage performed a new version of his single “A Lot” on “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon,” with lyrics that touched on the issue of children being separated from their parents at the United States border, a controversial Trump administration tactic to discourage illegal immigration.“There was scuttlebutt after the Jimmy Fallon show” coming from “some very high levels in Washington,” LaPolt added. What she heard suggested that 21 Savage had ruffled feathers.And so on the Thursday before the Super Bowl, LaPolt dispatched another attorney from her firm, Danielle Price, to Georgia to accompany 21 Savage back to California, a more immigrant-friendly state with a newly passed sanctuary law. He declined to go until after completing his contractual commitments — a pair of concerts at events surrounding the game — that weekend.While his case winds its way through the immigration system, 21 Savage’s team has been actively underscoring the political dimension to his plight and marshaling public support. A #Free21Savage coalition of a couple of dozen activist organizations is drawing attention to his situation, and two members of Congress — Hank Johnson and Zoe Lofgren — spoke publicly on his behalf while he was still in detention. Lofgren, from California and chairwoman of the House Judiciary Immigration and Citizenship Subcommittee, released a statement opening the door for 21 Savage to appear as a witness before her subcommittee and floating the idea that he had been arrested as a result of publicly questioning United States immigration policy. “Was his arrest in response to his Constitutionally protected speech?” the statement said. “It looks like that.”Bryan D. Cox, ICE’s Southern Region Communications Director, said in an email, “We’re not able to give any additional comment on this case.”Now that 21 Savage has been released on bond, his case moves to a different docket, for those who aren’t detained. The wait for his next hearing could be more than a year. “Time is our friend,” Kuck said. “We want to make sure we can maximize the politics and the process.”When 21 Savage was in detention, he “tried to refrain from talking to my mama and my kids — I ain’t want them to hear me through the phone,” the rapper said. He did want to speak with his lawyers, however. “I don’t like hopes and none of that,” he said he had told them. “Keep it real.”Between them, there is an easy rapport. In his music, 21 Savage rarely raps above a whisper, and in person, he was contained and disarmingly calm, speaking forcefully without ever raising his voice. On the day after his release, he was wearing all black, from his Balenciaga jacket to his Prada shoes, and his demeanor was studious. By contrast, his lawyers were sharp-tongued and defiant. While they barked on his behalf, he maintained imperturbable cool.For now, anyway, they will do much of the speaking. After interviews the day after his release with The New York Times and “Good Morning America,” 21 Savage has gone almost completely silent.HIP-HOP MYTHOLOGIES are built on regional specificities. More than any other genre in American pop, rap music understands itself as the product of place. 21 Savage’s Atlanta is and has been the center of the genre’s innovation for more than a decade now — the most vital creative hotbed of the most vital American music.So the knowledge that he initially came from elsewhere served as a useful reminder that this American music, like so many American musics before it, wouldn’t sound the same without immigrants. A quick reminder: Almost all of hip-hop’s founder generation — Kool Herc, Grandmaster Flash, Doug E. Fresh — was born in the Caribbean. The island influence continues through today: Last year, Nicki Minaj wrote on Instagram about coming to the United States as an undocumented immigrant from Trinidad and Tobago when she was 5.Hip-hop has also faced immigration crises before. Slick Rick, one of the most innovative rappers of the late 1980s and early 1990s, was born in England. In 1991, he pleaded guilty to two counts of attempted murder (and other charges) in connection with the 1990 shooting of his former bodyguard. In 2001, he was arrested after performing on a cruise ship that left American waters and put into deportation proceedings, beginning a tug-of-war over his residency until 2008, when he was pardoned by David A. Paterson, then the governor of New York. In 2016, Slick Rick was granted United States citizenship.In 2009, Shyne — a protégé of Sean Combs — was deported to Belize, where he was born, not long after completing his sentence for attempted murder, assault and reckless endangerment related to the infamous 1999 shooting at Club New York (which also involved Combs and his girlfriend at the time, Jennifer Lopez).Slick Rick was, at times, a cause célèbre, but largely among the genre’s elders. Shyne became, in essence, collateral damage of late-90s rap excess. But both cases unfolded in far less dramatic moments of the immigration debate. By rapping about the child separation policy, 21 Savage inserted himself directly into a noxious political climate. And while many rappers, from YG to Eminem to Jay-Z, have spoken openly of their contempt for President Trump and his policies, none had as much to lose.Early in his career, 21 Savage did not immediately appear as a likely candidate for a political agitator. On his earliest mixtapes, he emerged as a coldhearted menace, dulled to the world’s pain. His lyrics were bleak, his attitude bleaker. Over the last couple of years, as he has become increasingly popular, he’s been steadily remaking his public image — a product, he said, of being exposed to more of the world.“I think financial freedom made me grow as a person,” he said, speaking about his desire to help others. “I did it as soon as I had the resources and the time. ‘Cause when you first start making money, it’s like you still figuring yourself out.”“But then it’s like, O.K., we a machine now,” he added. “Now we can get everybody else right.”It was this impulse, LaPolt said, that resonated with her when she was first in discussions to represent 21 Savage last year. “I realized how much he did for the community,” she said, citing his back-to-school drives and interest in spreading financial literacy to underserved populations. “I said to the rest of the team, ‘This needs to be at the forefront of the storytelling.’”LaPolt is a prominent music industry attorney who was one of the primary engines of the Music Modernization Act, the copyright legislation that was signed into law in October and which, among other things, updates how royalties are paid in the streaming age. When 21 Savage was arrested, she put her Washington connections to work. Johnson, a Congressman from Georgia who had attended a back-to-school drive organized by 21 Savage, wrote a letter of support. Lofgren’s statement came soon after.On the Sunday of the Grammys ceremony, which 21 Savage ended up watching on a television in his detention-center cell, Kuck called ICE’s toll-free number for detainee information and learned that, unexpectedly, a hearing had been scheduled for Tuesday morning.NOW THAT 21 SAVAGE has been released from detention, the push to secure his status continues. His legal team has applied for cancellation of removal, which is available to individuals who have been in the United States for more than 10 years, have American citizen family members who rely on them, are of good moral character and have no disqualifying criminal convictions.In interviews early in his career, 21 Savage spoke frankly about his life before music. “I done sold cocaine, sold crack cocaine,” he told The Fader in 2016. “I never sold, like, a whole brick. I done took bricks.” In 2014 he was arrested, and later convicted, on drug charges. Last year, through a first-offender program, the conviction was removed from public record, though that still had “monstrous immigration consequences,” Kuck said. Subsequently, LaPolt hired the Atlanta-area attorney Abbi S. Taylor, who secured the vacating of the plea and the dismissal of the charges. The file is now sealed. A search for 21 Savage on the Georgia Felon Search website turns up nothing.In an hour-plus interview, 21 Savage declined to speak only about the particulars of his prior interactions with law enforcement.When ICE arrested 21 Savage, it stated that he had been convicted of an “aggravated felony” in addition to overstaying his visa. At the hearing where he was granted bond, it formally withdrew that charge.“Not only does he not have a conviction, but there are no pending charges, there never will be any charges from that, and that case is sealed,” Kuck said, “so it simply never happened.”But the specter of that case highlights a potential continuing concern: that 21 Savage’s public persona — his art, his social media, his prior public statements — could be leveraged against him. (Public image, and especially lyrical content, have often been used in legal proceedings involving hip-hop artists, as seen recently in the case of 6ix9ine.)Kuck said that such topics were raised in the first hearing, though, “it didn’t come up in a way that we believe hurt our case.”“I’m very optimistic,” Kuck added. “I am convinced that we will ultimately obtain permanent residence for him.”Asked if the uncertainty he still faces causes him anxiety, 21 Savage was blunt: “Hell yeah.”That he could be used as a political cudgel isn’t lost on anyone, including 21 Savage himself. “He goes, ‘Well, I don’t want Trump to come at me,’ and I go, ‘You’re the last person he’s going to come after,’” LaPolt said. “Who in their right mind is going to come after him and not have a complete backlash?”But for someone who for most of his life has lived with the permanent uncertainty of the undocumented, he was at his most exultant and confident speaking about not having to fight alone.“It’s like putting bulletproof glass in front of a bulletproof vest,” 21 Savage said. “I’m going to stand up already, this vest already going to stop any bullet you throw, and y’all going to come help and put some glass in front of it too? This can’t be stopped. We a tank now. We was already the army — now we coming in tanks.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas Kulish, Frances Robles and Patricia MazzeiShe was 49, a recent immigrant and deeply in debt to a loan shark back home in China when she answered an employment ad three years ago that promised thousands of dollars a month, but offered no job description. She realized too late that she had been tricked into working at a massage parlor in Flushing, Queens, where besides kneading backs, she was expected to sexually service up to a dozen men a day.Some of the clients were violent, and the boss charged $10 a day for her to sleep on a sofa in a room at the parlor where rats nibbled on her food. “The customers were very terrible,” said the woman, who, ashamed of the stigma of her former profession, asked that her name not be used. “After you perform a service, they would find an excuse to take the money away.” They would, she said, “do even worse things.”In strip malls across the country, neon signs and brightly colored placards promise hot stones, acupuncture and shiatsu with photos of women or couples receiving relaxing shoulder rubs. But a traditionally Asian form of therapeutic relaxation with deep roots in big-city Chinatowns has spun off a different kind of massage parlor that has little to do with traditional remedies. It has exploded into a $3 billion-a-year sex industry that relies on pervasive secrecy, close-knit ownership rings and tens of thousands of mostly foreign women ensnared in a form of modern indentured servitude.[Read more about a thriving sex trafficking trade in Florida.]The frequently middle-aged women who work in parlors with names like Orchids of Asia and Rainbow Spa are often struggling to pay off high debts to family members, loan sharks, labor traffickers and lawyers who help them file phony asylum claims. In some cases, their passports are taken and their illegal immigration status keeps them further in the shadows, with some of them rotated every 10 days to two weeks between spas operated by the same owners. Forced to pay for their own supplies and even their own condoms, many women must sleep on the same massage tables where they service customers and cook on hot plates in cramped kitchens or on back steps.“We stopped thinking about just cages, bars and chains as the means of coercion,” said John Richmond, the State Department’s top anti-trafficking official. “They are using nonviolent forms of coercion.”The recent arrest warrant filed against Robert K. Kraft, owner of the New England Patriots — and the solicitation charges filed against nearly 300 men in multiple jurisdictions as part of the same case — riveted national attention to a stretch of Highway 1 along Florida’s Treasure Coast dotted with strip malls, gas stations and sapphire ocean views. Across the region, parlors were empty and many frequent clients were phoning their lawyers, wondering if more warrants were going to drop.Law enforcement officials said there were an estimated 9,000 illicit massage parlors across the country, from Orlando to Los Angeles. The epicenter of this national underground is the bustling Chinatown in Flushing, in the New York City borough of Queens. Women — typically Chinese, but also Korean, Thai and East European — arrive at Kennedy International Airport, learn the trade and are sent out to places like Virginia, Iowa, Texas and Florida. Women are recruited locally through ads in Chinese-language newspapers or over the social network WeChat.“Flushing is the center of this network,” said Lori Cohen, the director of Sanctuary for Families’ Anti-Trafficking Initiative, which has interviewed around 1,000 massage workers over the past five years and helped the 49-year-old immigrant who was sexually assaulted leave the business after she was arrested. “They are showing up in different parts of the country, but all of them have addresses in Flushing, Queens,” she said.[Read: An epic tragedy in the underground sex industry in Flushing.]The women are paid just a sliver of the $60 or more the client pays for an hourlong massage. Their real money — and chance at a better life — comes in the form of tips, which they are encouraged or forced to amplify through illegal means.A 60-year-old former massage worker from Taiwan, who agreed to be identified only by the nickname she commonly uses, Tina, said she was lured into working at a massage parlor in New York a decade ago by the travel agency broker who helped secure her visa to travel to the United States. “People come here and don’t have a place to live,” she said. “These places offer a place to live, and it seems like a nice idea. They say, ‘It’s not safe to keep your passport on hand,’ and they will ask to hold the passport.”She was arrested several times before getting out of the business, and feels comparatively lucky. One close friend was spirited to Texas by traffickers, she said, had her passport taken and was forced to see eight to 12 customers a day. One day the tearful calls she often received from her friend came to an abrupt halt.“A lot of the businesses that look like either nail salons or massage places, especially the places that offer massage, there are bad things happening there,” she said. “It’s 100 percent organized crime.”The ubiquity of the massage parlors offers an accessibility and sheen of normalcy not offered by traditional brothels. And as the massage parlors have expanded even into small-town America in recent years, meticulously detailed review sites like Rubmaps have served as the Yelp and Foursquare of the illicit parlor business, with graphic anatomical descriptions of the women and explicit breakdowns of the sexual services proffered.Even at illicit parlors, owners and managers can claim ignorance of the additional services offered by employees behind closed doors. The evidence gathered during raids and searches often tells a far different tale. The police say it is common to find ledgers tracking the number of “dates” women have had, as was found in a bust in Dallas in 2016. In one case in Kansas, a search of the premises yielded a notebook with handwritten Chinese-English translations that “included sexually explicit phrases such as ‘did you bring condom’ and ‘happy ending.’”A federal law enforcement official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because this person is involved in active cases, said that the most common method for smuggling women from Asian countries was either a fraudulent tourist visa or a fraudulent work visa, such as for nursing work. Many came as students, then overstayed to work in the sex industry.Many women arrive in the United States from China bearing heavy debt burdens and try to find work in restaurants or nail salons. But the money isn’t good enough for the five-figure debts weighing them down. The massage jobs are presented as opportunities for fast, easy money.“They will talk about how they used to work in a restaurant and it was really hard physically and they couldn’t make that much money, and then they heard from somebody or saw an ad saying they could make a lot more money in a massage parlor,” said Leigh Latimer, a supervising attorney at the Legal Aid Society’s exploitation intervention project in New York.One reason the Asian massage parlors remain so poorly understood is the extreme reluctance of the women to speak with the police and even with their own lawyers.“Even though I’ve represented many, many women arrested in unlicensed massage parlors, because of the level of distrust of people working, almost all immigrants, almost all undocumented, they don’t trust even their attorneys enough to let them know what’s happened to them,” Ms. Latimer said.Some fear retaliation by traffickers to their families in China, and some feel morally indebted to those who helped find them a job, said Chris Muller, the director of training and external affairs at Restore NYC, an anti-sex-trafficking organization.“This is a powerful exploitation tactic,” he said. “Any favor is implied there is going to be a payment back. ‘Look at what I have done for you. I found you a job. I found you a place to live and this is how you repay me?’”Small networks of spas are also common, and their ownership structures are complex and opaque. “It’s rare that you have a mom-and-pop business where they’re just running one,” said Lt. Christopher Sharpe of the New York Police Department’s vice section. “Usually if they’re running one, they have a second or a third business.”Bradley Myles, chief executive of Polaris Project, a nonprofit that works to combat human trafficking, said that the madams arrested on big raids like the recent ones in Florida — known as “mamasans” — are often women in their 60s and 70s who have spent decades in the sex trade but are usually pretty far down in the organization.Above these site managers is usually a person who appears on paperwork as the massage parlor owner, but is often just a frontman running a shell company. The payouts from the shell company go to what is legally known as the “beneficial owner.”“Very little is known of the behind-the-scene owners,” Mr. Myles said. “They are hiding behind shell companies, hiding behind mamasans. They are hiding behind fake people.”In addition, the networks have groups of drivers that help move the women from place to place. Some networks are only two or three layers deep, others four or five.“I’ve certainly seen indicia of larger networks and indicia of powerful transporters,” said the federal law enforcement official.The Florida Department of Health disciplined 62 massage parlors or therapists last fiscal year, up from 14 the year before, records show. The agency receives upward of 300 complaints about unlicensed massage facilities each year.Department inspection reports described women inside the spas living in tight quarters cluttered with essentials, including rolling bath carts stuffed with toiletries, shelves lined with coffee mugs and cooking pots and stashes of assorted snacks. The women slept on individual cots and in some cases appeared to keep their belongings and blankets inside locked plastic trunks.Their IDs showed that several of them had addresses outside Florida, including in Flushing, N.Y.; Lilburn, Ga.; San Gabriel, Calif.; and Temple City, Calif.Those who are arrested are not necessarily left to their own resources. When sheriff’s deputies in Martin County, Fla., were interviewing Lixia Zhu, 48, one of the massage parlor employees arrested two weeks ago, it wasn’t long before a New York lawyer arrived and identified himself as her lawyer. The lawyer, Baya Harrison IV, told The New York Times that Ms. Zhu used to work in New York and that her friends had hired him to defend her.The county sheriff, William D. Snyder, said Ms. Zhu had tearfully told deputies and a public defender about how her passport was kept from her in a locked safe and how the woman she worked for once threatened her by brandishing a gun.One woman in the Florida sting has been charged with human trafficking, after police officers conducting surveillance saw her shuttling two other women carrying suitcases in and out of a spa in Vero Beach.Bob Houston, a former F.B.I. agent who now works as a consultant to combat trafficking, said that Thai traffickers often employ elaborate schemes to help women intended for the massage industry apply for tourist visas. The traffickers create false back stories, giving women the appearance of an established life at home, including a spouse and bank account, all to help them qualify for a tourist visa. They even produce fake diplomas from massage schools. The tab is usually $40,000 to $60,000, he said.“They owe a bunch of money to the people who recruited them,” he said.In December, 36 people in Minnesota were convicted for their roles in a Thai sex trafficking ring that shuttled hundreds of women from Bangkok to cities across the United States, including Phoenix, Las Vegas, Atlanta and Minneapolis.The women, referred to as “flowers” by the criminal organizations, were forced to work at massage parlors with no choice about where, when and with whom they performed sex acts until their debts were paid off. They were permitted to move around outside the parlors only with so-called runners working for the organization, evidence in the case showed.The decision by law enforcement in Florida to focus on patrons of the establishments in such a public way rather than the women working there has generated a lot of fear among clients.John Musca, a criminal defense lawyer with an office in Vero Beach whose website advertises sex crime defense, said he has received panicked phone calls from many men who frequented the establishments and are worried that the police are about to come knocking.“There are a great number of folks who are on pins and needles,” Mr. Musca said.Jeffrey E. Singer contributed reporting in Jupiter, Fla. Kitty Bennett and Alain Delaquérière contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Palko KaraszLONDON — Ordering landlords to check prospective tenants’ immigration status leads to racial discrimination and breaches human rights, Britain’s High Court has ruled, in a judgment that deals a blow to migration control measures championed by Prime Minister Theresa May.The mandatory checks are one plank in what has become known as the government’s “hostile environment” policy, which aims to force people in the country illegally to leave by blocking their access to jobs, bank accounts and free medical care, among other things.The policy has been criticized as imposing heavy burdens on legal immigrants and British citizens who are not white but are obliged to prove their status repeatedly. It has brought particularly harsh consequences for the “Windrush generation” of migrants encouraged to move from the Caribbean after World War II to help with Britain’s reconstruction, many of whom never had — or previously needed — the sort of documents demanded.Landlords said the mandatory checks made them “unwilling border police” and discouraged them from renting to anyone whose migration status might not be straightforward.The judgment does not strike down the 2014 legislation that imposed document checks on tenants in England. But it asks Parliament to reconsider how the law is applied and blocks plans to extend the checks to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.A report commissioned by the Residential Landlords Association — which backed the legal challenge brought by an immigrant rights group and decided by the High Court on Friday — found that close to half of landlords were less likely to rent to someone without a British passport.“The measures have a disproportionately discriminatory effect,” Justice Martin Spencer said in his judgment. Even if the checks had been shown to be effective in controlling migration, he added, he “would have found that this was significantly outweighed by the discriminatory effect.”Evidence submitted to the court showed that the government had failed to measure whether the checks resulted in discrimination, or even whether they helped detect and remove people who were in the country illegally.According to the Migration Observatory at the University of Oxford, forced removals and voluntary departures from Britain have declined since 2013.“The net has been cast too wide and the effect of the scheme has been to cause landlords to commit nationality and/or race discrimination against those who are perfectly entitled to rent, with the result that they are less able to find homes than (white) British citizens,” the judge said, citing claims from the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants, which brought the case to court.Mrs. May, who was Britain’s home secretary for six years before becoming prime minister in 2016, has been closely identified with moves to tighten the country’s migration policies. She promised to create “a really hostile environment” for illegal immigration in a 2012 interview with The Daily Telegraph, although her government now prefers to speak of a “compliant environment.”Measures to achieve that included a poster campaign, with billboards driven on vans across London’s suburbs in the summer of 2013, urging those in the country illegally to “Go home or face arrest.”The billboards drew widespread criticism and quickly disappeared. But they were followed by the legislation mandating document checks at many key points in daily life, a cultural shift for Britain, which has no mandatory identity card system, unlike many European countries, and has long considered its relative lack of official paperwork a point of national pride.Criticism of the measures reached a peak last year, when the government had to apologize to Windrush migrants — the name refers to the Empire Windrush, the liner that brought the first large postwar group of arrivals from the West Indies — who had lived legally in Britain for decades but lost their jobs, were denied medical care and even faced the threat of deportation.Friday’s judgment was “another nail in the coffin for the government’s misguided, discriminatory and unworkable hostile environment policy,” Lara ten Caten, a solicitor with Liberty, a group that campaigns for civil liberties and supported the court challenge, told the BBC.“While effective immigration control is a legitimate aim for any government, the Home Office must stop outsourcing its discriminatory policies to third parties who are ill-equipped to enforce them but may be slapped with heavy fines and even end up in prison if they don’t,” she added.The Residential Landlords Association called on the government to scrap the checks and stop relying on landlords to “do the job of the Home Office.”“We have warned all along that turning landlords into untrained and unwilling border police would lead to the exact form of discrimination the court has found,” it said in a statement on Friday.In an emailed statement, the Home Office said it was disappointed with the judgment and that it had been granted permission to appeal.“In the meantime, we are giving careful consideration to the judge’s comments,” the statement said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — House Democrats issued subpoenas late Tuesday to three cabinet officials, in a sharp escalation of their battle over the administration’s policy of separating migrant families at the southern border.Administration officials did not immediately say if the cabinet officials — the homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen; the attorney general, William P. Barr; and the health and human services secretary, Alex M. Azar II — would comply. But Ms. Nielsen has previously refused to appear before the House Homeland Security committee to answer similar inquiries, and the Justice Department suggested Mr. Barr would not turn over documents requested by the committee.Earlier in the day, the House Oversight and Reform Committee easily passed a measure authorizing the subpoenas that called for the officials to turn over documents pertaining to the detention policies, as two Republicans — Representative Justin Amash of Michigan and Representative Chip Roy of Texas — voted with Democrats to authorize the subpoenas. Moments later, the House Judiciary Committee held its first hearing on a child separation policy that the panel’s Democratic chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, described as “indefensible,” “inhumane” and “immoral” in his opening statement.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]Mr. Nadler and other Democrats complained about the pace and quality of the data administration officials had provided them before the hearings. On Monday night, administration officials sent a trove of data that committee Democrats had requested months earlier, including a report documenting hundreds of allegations of sexual abuse reported by minors at detention facilities over the past several years.More than 2,700 children were separated from their parents at the border under President Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy of prosecuting anyone caught crossing the border illegally, even those with families seeking asylum on humanitarian grounds.The subpoenas are part of a larger effort, led by Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the chairman of the oversight panel, and other Democratic committee chairmen to compel public testimony on a range of issues from officials with the Departments of Homeland Security, Justice and Health and Human Services.While the subpoenas do not initially call for the secretaries to testify, congressional aides said they had not ruled out that possibility.Caitlin B. Oakley, a spokeswoman for Mr. Azar, would not say if he intended to comply. The Health and Human Services Department “understands and appreciates the important role of congressional oversight,” she said in a statement.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for Mr. Barr, suggested the committee should receive the documents from the other two departments. “The documents requested by the House Oversight Committee should be obtained from the originating agencies — here, H.H.S. and D.H.S,” she said, referring to the Departments of Health and Human Services and Homeland Security. “The Department of Justice is currently representing H.H.S. and D.H.S. in litigation and the information requested was obtained in the course of that representation.”Aides to Ms. Nielsen did not immediately return requests for comment.Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, the committee’s top Republican, asked Mr. Cummings in a letter this week to reconsider the wide issuance of subpoenas.The Trump policy of prosecuting all adults crossing the border led to the practice of separating families and caring for the children in licensed facilities while trying to place them with a relative, because a previous court settlement had restricted the detention of children. The Department of Homeland Security struggled to track families and their children after the policy was put in place last spring — and did not create a comprehensive family reunification policy until a federal judge intervened.Mr. Trump eventually relented on the family separations, and a federal judge in California halted them in June. But in January, the inspector general of the Department of Health and Human Services reported that thousands more families might have been separated than previously reported.Democrats, whose questions were largely ignored by the administration before they took control of the House in January, leveled their sharpest questions on Tuesday at Scott Lloyd, who until recently oversaw the Department of Health and Human Services’ refugee resettlement program, which oversees the carrying out of the policy.Mr. Lloyd spoke so softly that committee members craned over the rostrum to hear his answers. He struggled to explain why his agency initially failed to track migrant families separated as part of the policy.When Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, Democrat of Texas, asked about a report that Mr. Lloyd had instructed department staff members to stop maintaining a database used to track separated children and families, Mr. Lloyd responded by saying the report was “incorrect,” but offered no further explanation.In prepared remarks, Mr. Lloyd, an anti-abortion activist who had no prior experience administering refugee programs before being placed in his former post, laid some of the blame on the Homeland Security Department, saying that “D.H.S. had not consistently adhered” to “processes” used to identify and track migrant families.Sitting next to Mr. Lloyd at the witness table was Cmdr. Jonathan White of the United States Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, a career federal official who repeatedly warned him last year that the family separation policy could cause permanent trauma to young children.Commander White said that he raised his opposition to the policy “in every conversation we had about family separation” and that he “raised those concerns” with Mr. Lloyd’s staff and other top officials at the Department of Health and Human Services last summer, when detention facilities were overwhelmed by families detained at the border.Research showed that the policy “had very significant and lifelong psychological impacts” on the children who were detained, he added.In an extraordinary exchange, Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington, asked Mr. Lloyd if he had heeded Commander White’s warnings by intensifying efforts to create a comprehensive plan for tracking and reuniting families.“I did not direct anybody to not plan,” Mr. Lloyd responded.When Ms. Jayapal asked him if he informed “anyone above you” that the detention policy could harm children, Mr. Lloyd replied, “I did not.”In another heated exchange, Commander White bristled when Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida, sharply questioned him about new data, provided by the Department of Health and Human Services to the committee late Monday, that documented thousands of allegations of sexual abuse at detention facilities overseen by the department.The report, compiled by the Justice Department, showed that there were 1,226 allegations of sexual abuse made to the Office of Refugee Resettlement at the Department of Health and Human Services in 2018, which was largely in keeping with the number of reports filed in the previous three years; 348 of them were deemed serious enough to warrant a Justice Department investigation. Fifty-six involved staff members at detention centers.“That is false!” Commander White shouted, as Mr. Deutch read the numbers.Later, he apologized for his outburst and said that the “vast majority of allegations proved to be unfounded” and that he was not aware of any accusations against staff members that were found to have merit.Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearOXON HILL, Md. — President Trump said on Saturday that he planned to issue an executive order that would help guarantee free speech at colleges and universities by putting their federal aid at risk if they do not protect the viewpoints of students of all political stripes.The president made the announcement during a rambling two-hour speech to activists at the Conservative Political Action Conference outside Washington, but he did not provide any details about the possible executive order. Several White House officials did not respond to emails or telephone calls seeking additional information.The White House did not respond to questions about when the president might sign the order.The issue of free speech on college campuses has for years been a cause célèbre among young conservative activists, who point to instances around the country in which conservative voices have been shunned by liberal students and professors.The crowd, which included many college-age conservatives, welcomed Mr. Trump’s announcement, leaping to their feet when he pledged to hold school administrators accountable for ensuring that conservatives were permitted to express their views on campuses, often places where liberals outnumber them.The president cited the case of Hayden Williams, a young activist who was beaten up last month as he was recruiting for a conservative organization at the University of California, Berkeley — long one of the leading centers of liberal academic thought.“If they want our dollars, and we give it to them by the billions, they’ve got to allow people like Hayden and many great young people, and old people, to speak,” Mr. Trump said, drawing huge applause.Mr. Trump invited Mr. Williams, who was in the audience, to address the crowd briefly, calling him strong and urging him to sue the university because of the episode. Mr. Williams thanked the president for supporting young conservatives such as himself.Floyd Abrams, a leading First Amendment lawyer, expressed concern about the president’s proposed executive order.“The visage of the most congenitally anti-free-speech administration in American history making a series of decisions as to which campus conduct is pro- or anti-free speech is more than alarming,” Mr. Abrams said in an email Saturday afternoon.The president has raised a similar threat before, implying he would withhold federal funds from Berkeley after it canceled a speech by Milo Yiannopoulos, a conservative speaker and professional provocateur.Students at multiple campuses threatened to boycott events where Mr. Yiannopoulos was to speak, forcing them to cancel the appearances.In 2017, at Claremont McKenna College, a private liberal arts school in Southern California, about 250 people blocked entrances to an auditorium where Heather Mac Donald, a conservative writer who has criticized the Black Lives Matter movement, was speaking.That same year, students at Middlebury College in Vermont disrupted a speech by Charles Murray, a scholar known for his 1994 book, “The Bell Curve,” which links socioeconomic status with race and intelligence. Protesters chanted, “racist, sexist, anti-gay, Charles Murray, go away!”It is unclear how Mr. Trump’s executive order would change that dynamic, though he hinted that universities and colleges would have to do more to prevent such demonstrations or risk the loss of grant money that the institutions receive from the federal government to support research.He said the executive order would “require colleges to support free speech if they want federal research” funding.It is not clear how long the idea has been under consideration at the White House or whether the president decided to pursue an executive order because of the episode involving Mr. Williams, which Fox News and other conservative outlets covered extensively.It is also unclear how much the president can withhold federal aid to colleges without congressional action. Previous discussions of that issue in conservative circles have focused on passing legislation to change the requirements for colleges to request grant funding from the federal government.Mr. Trump made the announcement during one of the longest speeches he has ever delivered, speaking for more than two hours to the thousands of activists at the conclusion of the three-day annual convention.The campaign-like speech touched on dozens of hot-button issues, including illegal immigration. The president accused “open border” Democrats of letting murderers, rapists and drug dealers into the country.“They give us some very bad people — people with big, long crime records,” he said of Central American countries including Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador. “Murderers. Killers. Drug dealers. Human traffickers. It’s so sad to see how stupid we have been.”More than two years after he took office, Mr. Trump once again insisted that his inaugural crowd was larger than his critics have admitted. He bragged about the state of the economy and denounced Democrats who he said supported socialism.He denigrated the trade deals made by previous politicians and boasted about the tariffs that the United States had imposed on China and other countries. And he repeatedly mocked the “new green deal” offered by some Democrats, saying it would destroy the economy and take away people’s cars and airplanes.“Somebody described it as a high school term paper, written by a poor student,” he joked.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesWelcome to Crossing the Border, a limited-run weekly newsletter from The New York Times. Like what you see? Send this to a friend. If someone forwarded it to you, sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.For weeks, President Trump has been criticized for exaggerating the brutality experienced by migrant women on the border as he makes his case for a wall.A Rose Garden address in January was only one of the times when Mr. Trump has made the claim:“Women are tied up. They’re bound. Duct tape put around their faces, around their mouths. In many cases, they can’t even breathe. They’re put in the backs of cars or vans or trucks.”If the president was suggesting that such savagery occurs daily on America’s southern border, then he was indeed exaggerating. News organizations and immigrant advocate groups were quick to express skepticism. Trafficking experts told the news media they had not heard of such an episode.But there is some truth to the president’s descriptions of the threat of sexual assault and of women who have been duct-taped and bound.Undocumented women have been duct-taped and tied up before, during and after their migration to the United States, The Times discovered while reporting this story. Maybe not frequently, but it has happened.“Because I didn’t want to let them, they tied my feet together and my hands behind my back,” a 45-year-old Honduran woman told us in an interview. She said she was raped after her smugglers forced her into prostitution shortly after she illegally crossed the border in Texas. The woman, who now lives in Austin and who asked to be identified by her first name, Lucy, was held captive in a makeshift brothel in the South Texas city of McAllen.Human smuggling has grown more and more violent, as border security tightens and as the smuggling of people and drugs becomes costlier and riskier. In this particular kind of border crossing, the smugglers are paid thousands of dollars by the migrants, but the relationship resembles not seller and buyer but prisoner and warden.The smugglers are called coyotes, and the migrants are called pollos, or chickens, and these terms very much reflect the dehumanized nature of a migrant’s journey through the borderlands. Clients are sometimes forced to take off their shoes or strip to their underwear to prevent them from fleeing. The coyotes control when and what the migrants eat, and where they sleep. They decide when their debt can be considered paid.In one trailer home in Carrizo Springs, Tex., smugglers raped a Salvadoran woman and tortured two men — covering the men’s hands with plastic bags, putting their hands on a stool and pounding their fingers with a hammer — all because their relatives failed to pay the fees.And the smugglers are not the only culprits.In 2000, a Border Patrol agent in Arizona, Dennis M. Johnson, was charged with sexual assault and kidnapping after he forced a 21-year-old migrant from El Salvador to disrobe and perform oral sex on him while she was handcuffed with her hands behind her back.In 2014 near McAllen, three Honduran migrants — a woman, her daughter and her daughter’s 14-year-old friend — crossed the Rio Grande and came across a uniformed Border Patrol agent. The agent, Esteban Manzanares, bound them with plastic police restraints, put silver duct-tape on their mouths and kidnapped them, driving them around in the back of his Border Patrol truck.“I thought he was going to harm us, because from the moment that he duct-taped our mouths, I felt that that was not normal anymore,” said the woman, 40, who asked to be identified by her initials, M.G.Mr. Manzanares tried to kill M.G. and her daughter, and then handcuffed the 14-year-old girl to a tree, her mouth still taped. He finished his shift, returned to the tree for the girl, drove her to his apartment and tied her to a bunk-bed, where he repeatedly sexually assaulted her. Her ordeal ended only many hours later, when law enforcement agents closed in on the apartment, and Mr. Manzanares, facing imminent capture, took his own life.— MANNY FERNANDEZ, reporting from McAllen, Tex.Manny is one of a team of New York Times journalists currently deployed along the border. Each week they’ll be sharing a slice of their reporting about the border and the people who spend time on both sides of it.Do you have questions about life on the border? Or feedback about this newsletter? Email us at: crossingtheborder@nytimes.com.It’s hard to find one number that encapsulates the myths versus the realities of living in a border city. This one comes pretty close.It starts with a question about crime. How many murders occurred last year in the South Texas border city of McAllen, the center of the busiest Border Patrol sector and the release point for thousands of asylum seekers from Central America?Zero.That’s right — McAllen had zero homicides in 2018, down from seven in 2017, three in 2016 and two in 2015.How did it happen?There is cartel-fueled drug violence directly across the border in parts of Mexico, but it largely fails to spillover into McAllen. Undocumented immigrants and drugs are smuggled through McAllen, but the city is largely a crossing point for that flow of people and drugs, not a destination point. Last year’s zero homicides were part of an overall low-crime pattern in the city, which has a population of 142,000. In 1991, about 2,150 cars were stolen in McAllen. Last year, there were 55.“Right now we have the lowest crime rate in McAllen in a 34-year period,” said the city’s chief of police, Victor Rodriguez. “The crisis is not at the border. The crisis is at the destination points. That’s what gets lost all the time.”— MANNY FERNANDEZ, reporting from McAllen, Tex.A woman in Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody gave birth to a stillborn baby. The episode was one of several to thrust the issue of caring for migrants in United States custody — especially the youngest — back into the spotlight this week.Here’s how to go deeper into the conversation.• House Democrats this week issued subpoenas to three Cabinet officials, escalating a battle against the Trump administration’s policy last yearof separating migrant children from their families. The subpoenas came hours after a House committee sharply questioned an official with the Department of Health and Human Services who oversaw the policy’s implementation. Read more here.• One issue was this report, from January, that thousands more children might have been separated from their parents at the border last year than the administration initially reported.• According to a Justice Department report released just ahead of the hearing, the federal government received more than 4,500 allegations of sexual abuse against immigrant children who were being held at government-funded detention facilities over a recent four-year period. Read more about the report here.• The attorney general of California released findings of a state audit of immigrant detention centers. It found detainees faced barriers to medical treatment. Read more at The Los Angeles Times. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriA 24-year-old Honduran woman gave birth to a stillborn baby boy last week while in ICE custody, the authorities said Monday, further raising concerns about the care pregnant women receive while detained.The woman, whose name has not been released, was apprehended by United States Border Patrol officials near Hidalgo, Tex., on Feb. 18, according to a joint statement issued Monday by Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection. She told the authorities that she was six months pregnant, and she was taken to a hospital and examined, the agencies said.The woman was placed in ICE custody at the Port Isabel Detention Center near Los Frenos, Tex., and set to be released last Friday. Then she complained of abdominal pain and was to be sent to a hospital, but went into labor.She gave birth to an unresponsive baby boy. Danielle Bennett, an ICE spokeswoman, said she had seen no information that indicated the woman’s detention contributed to the stillbirth.“Although for investigative and reporting purposes, a stillbirth is not considered an in-custody death, ICE and CBP officials are proactively disclosing the details of this tragic event to be transparent with Congress, the media and the public,” the agencies said in the statement.Ms. Bennett said that ICE has 60 pregnant detainees in custody and that between Oct. 1, 2017, and Aug. 31, 2018, more than 1,600 pregnant women had been booked into ICE custody.Twenty-eight women “may have experienced a miscarriage just prior to, or while in ICE custody” between Oct. 1, 2016, and Aug. 31, 2018, she said.Ms. Bennett said that without a full understanding of someone’s medical history, it was difficult to tell what caused a miscarriage or when exactly it began.Randy Capps, director of United States research for the Migration Policy Institute, said because the woman’s detention was only for a few days, “it would seem unlikely detention was the cause” of the stillbirth.But how immigration officials care for people in their custody has been under scrutiny in recent months. An 8-year-old Guatemalan boy, Felipe Gómez Alonso, died on Christmas Eve while in United States custody, and three weeks earlier, a 7-year-old Guatemalan girl, Jakelin Caal Maquin, died in Border Patrol custody.“There has been more and more public death,” said Erika Andiola, chief of advocacy for the Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services, or Raices, a nonprofit organization that provides low-cost legal defense services to immigrant and refugee families in Texas.She said the treatment of pregnant women had been a particular focus after the Trump administration said it would stop assuming pregnant women should be released, instead detaining them on a case-by-case basis.Ms. Andiola said based on interviews with migrants who have recently left detention centers, some pregnant women do not get the care they need at the centers. For example, some were told they would be taken to off-site medical professionals but never were, she said.“We know those are not the best conditions for pregnant women at all,” Ms. Andiola said. “This is not surprising, really.”The story of the Honduran woman detailed Monday still has many uncertainties. It is not clear how or why she was taken into custody by the Border Patrol officers or how it was determined that she should be released.Ms. Bennett, the spokeswoman, referred questions about the woman’s apprehension to Customs and Border Protection. C.B.P. did not answer questions seeking more information Monday.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Manny FernandezMCALLEN, Tex. — It was dark in the stash house where they kept her, the windows covered so no one could see inside. At first, the smugglers had her cook for the other migrants who had recently crossed illegally into the United States. Then they took her to a room upstairs, locked the door and began taking turns with her.It was the summer of 2014, and Melvin, a 36-year-old mother of three, had just completed the journey from her native Guatemala, crossing the Rio Grande on a raft before being led to the house in the Texas border city of McAllen.For weeks in that locked room, the men she had paid to get her safely to the United States drugged her with pills and cocaine, refusing to let her out even to bathe. “I think that since they put me in that room, they killed me,” she said. “They raped us so many times they didn’t see us as human beings anymore.”On America’s southern border, migrant women and girls are the victims of sexual assaults that most often go unreported, uninvestigated and unprosecuted. Even as women around the world are speaking out against sexual misconduct, migrant women on the border live in the shadows of the #MeToo movement.[Read: In a Border Courtroom, a Migrant Woman Confronts Her Biggest Fear]The stories are many, and yet all too similar. Undocumented women making their way into American border towns have been beaten for disobeying smugglers, impregnated by strangers, coerced into prostitution, shackled to beds and trees and — in at least a handful of cases — bound with duct tape, rope or handcuffs.The New York Times found dozens of documented cases through interviews with law enforcement officials, prosecutors, federal judges and immigrant advocates around the country, and a review of police reports and court records in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California. The review showed more than 100 documented reports of sexual assault of undocumented women along the border in the past two decades, a number that most likely only skims the surface, law enforcement officials and advocates say.In addition, interviews with migrant women and those working with them along the border point to large numbers of cases that are either unreported or unexamined, suggesting that sexual violence has become an inescapable part of the collective migrant journey.[Read the Newsletter: Yes, There Was Duct Tape: The Harrowing Journeys of Migrants Across the Border. Sign up for Crossing the Border here]President Trump has used the threat faced by migrant women to make his case for a border wall. “One in three women are sexually assaulted on the dangerous trek up through Mexico,” he said in January — an estimate that appears to have originated from some limited surveys, one of them by Doctors Without Borders, of women traveling through Mexico.But less understood is that the violence that befalls migrant women happens not just during the perilous journey through Mexico: Much of it happens after women reach the supposed safety of the United States.In July, a 23-year-old Honduran woman told the authorities that she was sexually assaulted in a bedroom closet by a smuggler who had helped her and her sister cross into the South Texas city of Mission. The following month, a sheriff’s deputy in San Antonio was charged with sexually assaulting the 4-year-old daughter of an undocumented Guatemalan woman and threatening to have her deported if she reported the abuse. In 2017, a guide leading a group of migrants through the Tohono O’odham Nation’s reservation in Arizona raped a woman from El Salvador twice during a seven-day desert hike, threatening to leave her stranded if she resisted. “I hope I leave you pregnant so you have one of my kids,” he said, the woman told the authorities.In 2016, a migrant woman fled a stash house in the South Texas city of Edinburg, where she said she had been raped by a smuggler who brandished a machete. In West Texas that same year, two teenage girls reported that they had been sexually assaulted by a Customs and Border Protection officer, who they said forced them to strip, fondled them, then tried to get them to stop crying by offering chocolates, potato chips and a blanket. In an unusual turn, the girls filed legal claims against the federal government, which settled the case in 2018 for $125,000.At least five of the women who were assaulted — in one case, bound with duct tape, raped and stabbed — were attacked not by migrant smugglers, who are often the perpetrators, but by on-duty Border Patrol agents and Customs officers.Experts say the actual number of sexual assaults is almost certainly much higher than those documented by prosecutors and the police, because most attacks are never reported. And such attacks don’t end at the border. Women have reported being assaulted in immigration detention facilities, and the federal government over a recent four-year period has received more than 4,500 complaints about the sexual abuse of immigrant children at government-funded detention facilities.The Times interviewed eight migrant women from Central America who were sexually assaulted between 2013 and 2016 — women still struggling with nightmares, depression and in some cases, thoughts of suicide. One reported that she was attacked in Mexico; six said they were assaulted in South Texas. One said she was attacked in both Mexico and South Texas. The oldest victims were in their early 40s when they were attacked; the two youngest were 14.Most of their attackers were never prosecuted or identified, and The Times was not able to independently verify the women’s accounts. But all eight women either gave sworn testimony or submitted statements under penalty of perjury to the federal government in order to qualify for visas, and cooperated with the police in the investigation of their cases.They described a netherworld of fear that coexists with the bustling life of American cities up and down the border. One woman told of being held prisoner in a house that had been turned into a makeshift brothel in McAllen, a city of 143,000 in the Rio Grande Valley. “Nueva carne” — new meat, the smugglers said as she and other migrant women were led into the house, said the woman, Lucy, 45, a migrant from Honduras who, like others interviewed, did not want her last name used.She said a series of men came into the house over the next several days and raped her. “Because I didn’t want to let them, they tied my feet together and my hands behind my back,” Lucy said.Gladys, 45, a mother of four from Guatemala, said she was kidnapped by armed smugglers after crossing the border and jumped out of a car to escape, but was captured again. For days, she was held prisoner at a stash house in McAllen and forced to have sex with six men. “I thought it would be better if I died when I fell from the car,” she said.Law enforcement officials on the border said they had made arrests in many of the cases brought to them and would pursue more if they could. But the majority of women who have been assaulted do not report it, often because their attackers threaten to expose their immigration status — or worse — if they do. One woman, raped repeatedly at gunpoint in a stash house in Phoenix in 2005, said her attacker threatened to sell her 3-year-old daughter if she reported him. Those who do go to the authorities may not know the names of their attackers, or even where the assault occurred. Smugglers make sure their clients are unsure of their whereabouts; if they are detained by Border Patrol, they won’t be able to pinpoint where they were held.[Read: Open Wounds, Head Injuries, Fever: Ailing Migrants Suffer at the Border]The women are powerless by almost any measure. Most of the eight interviewed now live in the United States after receiving the victim-related visas. They work in stores, restaurants and factories, most barely making a living. Their English is limited. Many of them have not even told their families what happened.“They don’t have many defenses,” said Jesus R. Romo Vejar, an Arizona lawyer who has represented many migrant women victimized by sexual assault. “Undocumented women and children are the most unprotected of human beings.”Here are some of their stories.Lucy, 45, was raped while being forced to work at makeshift brothels, first in Mexico and then in McAllen. When we got to the house, there were many women. It was a big house. I couldn’t see everybody’s face, but there were different women in different rooms for prostitution. I wanted to flee but I was afraid they were going to kill me. They just told us, “You guys don’t have money, so you have to pay with your body.”When we crossed the river, there was a man waiting, a white guy with tattoos. He was in a truck. We got into the truck. He brought us into a house in McAllen. When we got there, the guy started talking and he said that I was new meat.When they wanted to have sex with me they had to tie me up because I wasn’t cooperative. They tied my feet together and my hands behind my back and then they’d have sex with me from behind.Before, I could not talk about this. I would have panic, really serious panic. I didn’t want to leave the house. I didn’t want to talk to anybody. I thought that everyone in the world saw me as a prostitute. I come from a poor family but a very decent family.It has affected me, yes. But not anymore. I’m kind of enraged. Those guys have mothers and daughters. What they did to us is what they did to women.Melvin, 36, was raped and forced into prostitution in a locked room at a stash house in McAllen.I lost count of how long I was there for. It wasn’t me anymore. I think that since they put me in that room, they killed me. They have no mercy. They don’t care that you’re a mother, that you have family. They see someone who doesn’t matter to them.And I still remember while I was with them there, it was my birthday, and I didn’t want to, not that day. And I remember that he grabbed me and at one point bit me, and when I arrived at the detention center, I still had the bite marks. I told them that it was my birthday. And according to them, the rape that day was for my birthday.I tried to commit suicide three times. Because you can’t live with all of that. And every time I closed my eyes, the men would appear. You’d shower. You’d close your eyes. They were there. I didn’t want to live with that in my head anymore. But here I am.J.E., 19, and two other migrants were kidnapped in South Texas by a Border Patrol agent, Esteban Manzanares, when J.E. was 14. He raped her in his apartment in Mission, Tex., and later committed suicide.He took me and tied me up to a tree. He said he would come back. I was thinking about my little brother, who’s in Honduras, and I’d never see him again. He was about 10, I think. It was hours.He undid me from the tree and put me in the car. In the apartment, there were two beds on top of the other, children’s bunk beds, and ropes there, too. They were shoelaces. For my wrists and my feet.My mind was blank. I was trying to understand everything. I didn’t know what to do. My feet were tied up. I would look at him and he had a gun. And that frightened me. I asked him why, and he answered me that he was doing this to me because I was the prettiest one of the three.There are people who sort of discard you when they know what happened to you. But the majority of my girlfriends do know so they can understand what I went through, and they support me.V.E.M.L., 39, was raped in the South Texas brush by a smuggling guide. She was apprehended, detained at the Hutto detention center in Taylor, Tex., and later deported.I knew that they were the ones who were going to take me across, so I knew that I had to stay with them. I never learned his name. I felt nervous about him. He was very strange. I wasn’t sure if he was on drugs. He always stood up and sat down, and stood up and sat down.The older one walked ahead. The younger one said, “Come with me.”I said, “Where are we going?” And he said, “We’re going to catch up with them ahead.”He bit my mouth so I could not cry out. I was scared that it might occur to him to kill me.Afterwards, he told me to hurry up or he would leave me there on the ground. The guys in the group start saying, “Immigration! Immigration!” I ran toward Immigration. I wanted to get away. But then when they took me and put me in the car, I felt frustrated and alone. I just felt like I couldn’t stop crying. They were all men agents. They kept asking me why I was crying and I couldn’t explain.When they brought me to Laredo, I told a doctor what happened. He said, “Don’t feel like you’re the only one that this happened to. This has happened to many other women.”Cindy, 26, and her son Samuel stayed at a stash house in Mexico while waiting to cross the border. She and another woman were raped by a smuggler, and she learned after being apprehended by Border Patrol that she was pregnant. Samuel is now 8. His little brother, to whom Cindy gave the biblical name of Adonai, is 2.When he entered the room, he had the gun. He took the children out. He had the gun and he pointed the gun at my head when he was attacking us. First he abused me and then he abused her. We’re in his power and we feel like we’re disposable. We can’t do anything because it’s like they tell us, they can kill us and nobody will say anything.It wasn’t until that test that I knew I was pregnant. In that moment, it was like I had been marked. I had been marked because of what had happened to me, that violation.I wanted to kill myself. Going to the psychologist, that’s what helped me heal. She told me that we had to talk about it, we had to think about it, and we had to learn to live with our lives moving forward, even with what happened.My son, I realized he was an innocent bystander in this situation and that it wasn’t his fault. My motivation to keep going in life are my two kids. I thank God because everything that I suffered, they’re the happiness that came out of that.Michelle O’Donnell contributed reporting from Taylor, Tex., and Mitchell Ferman contributed from McAllen. Kitty Bennett contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagThe federal government received more than 4,500 complaints in four years about the sexual abuse of immigrant children who were being held at government-funded detention facilities, including an increase in complaints while the Trump administration’s policy of separating migrant families at the border was in place, the Justice Department revealed this week.The records, which involve children who had entered the country alone or had been separated from their parents, detailed allegations that adult staff members had harassed and assaulted children, including fondling and kissing minors, watching them as they showered, and raping them. They also included cases of suspected abuse of children by other minors.From October 2014 to July 2018, the Office of Refugee Resettlement, a part of the Health and Human Services Department that cares for so-called unaccompanied minors, received a total of 4,556 allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment, 1,303 of which were referred to the Justice Department. Of those 1,303 cases deemed the most serious, 178 were accusations that adult staff members had sexually assaulted immigrant children, while the rest were allegations of minors assaulting other minors, the report said.“The safety of minors is our top concern when administering the UAC program,” Jonathan H. Hayes, the acting director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, said in a statement, using an abbreviation for unaccompanied children. “None of the allegations involved O.R.R. federal staff. These allegations were all fully investigated and remedial action was taken where appropriate.”[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The records do not detail the outcome of every complaint, but they indicate that some accusations were determined to be unfounded or lacking enough evidence to prosecute. In one case, a staff member at a Chicago detention facility was accused in April 2015 of fondling and kissing a child and was later charged with a crime. The report did not state whether that person had been found guilty.The documents, first reported by Axios, were made public by Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida, the night before a House Judiciary Committee hearing on Tuesday about the Trump administration’s policy of family separations at the southern border. That policy, which was put in place last spring, resulted in more than 2,700 children being separated from their parents under President Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy of prosecuting anyone caught crossing the border illegally, including those with families seeking asylum on humanitarian grounds.For most of the four years covered by the report, the number of allegations made to the Office of Refugee Resettlement stayed about the same from month to month. But the number of complaints rose after the Trump administration enacted its separation policy. From March 2018 to July 2018, the agency received 859 complaints, the largest number of reports during any five-month span in the previous four years. Of those, 342 allegations were referred to the Justice Department, the report showed.During the hearing on Tuesday, a discussion of the records sparked a heated exchange between Mr. Deutch and Cmdr. Jonathan White of the United States Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, who last year repeatedly warned a top official in Health and Human Services that the family separation policy could permanently traumatize young children.As Mr. Deutch read some of the report, Commander White interjected, “That is false!”He later apologized, claiming that a “vast majority of allegations proved to be unfounded.” He said he was unaware of any accusations against staff members that were found to have merit.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zolan Kanno-Youngs and Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, on Wednesday tersely defended a now-defunct Trump administration practice of separating migrant children from their families at the border, sidestepping whether she supported it as a way to deter illegal immigration.In tense exchanges with House Democrats, Ms. Nielsen instead implored Congress to confront what she called a “humanitarian catastrophe” on the southern border by changing laws to crack down on illegal border crossings.She also said the Trump administration’s family separation practice was similar to those of previous presidents — even if only sporadically enforced in earlier cases.“It was a policy by this administration that only ended when there were pictures of little kids in cages that had been ripped away from their parents,” Representative Kathleen Rice, Democrat of New York, told Ms. Nielsen during a hearing of the House Homeland Security Committee.[Update: Kirstjen Nielsen out as Trump’s homeland security secretary.]Ms. Nielsen replied that Ms. Rice mischaracterized the administration’s enforcement.“That’s a policy,” Ms. Rice said. “You should admit it.”Ms. Nielsen noted that parents are generally separated from their children when they go to jail for illegal activities. But “that wasn’t the point” of the immigration policy, she said.“The point was to increase prosecutions for those breaking the law,” she added.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]The hearing was Ms. Nielsen’s first since Democrats took control of the House this year. She backed President Trump’s request to declare a national emergency at the border — which would give him access to funding to build a border wall — and cited new data from her department showing that the number of immigrants entering the United States illegally had doubled from a year ago.Immigration officials are on track to apprehend one million people crossing the southern border this year, Ms. Nielsen said.“This is not a manufactured crisis,” Ms. Nielsen said. “This is truly an emergency.”Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, later accused Democrats of refusing to acknowledge a crisis at the border. She also chastised Senate Republicans who did not support the president’s emergency declaration.“If you had done what you were elected to do on the front end, then the president would not have to fix the problem on his own through a national emergency,” Ms. Sanders said.Some Republicans at the House hearing said they supported building a wall along the border.Representative Daniel Crenshaw, Republican of Texas, acknowledged the concerns about family separations but said physical barriers were crucial to securing the long stretches of land between ports of entry.Mr. Crenshaw said he now doubted that “we all value the rule of law and value the ability to manage our border effectively” — a view he admitted was cynical.The Department of Homeland Security has opened three investigations into the Trump administration’s immigration policies, the agency’s acting inspector general, John V. Kelly, said in a separate hearing on Wednesday.Mr. Kelly said one investigation is looking into the department’s systems for tracking migrant children separated from their families; another is examining whether asylum-seeking families are being separated at the border.Department investigators were also reviewing whether parents facing deportation were given the option of bringing their children back home with them. In the hearing with Ms. Nielsen, Ms. Rice asked whether every relative facing deportation was, in fact, allowed to do so.“To the best of my knowledge, every parent was afforded that option,” Ms. Nielsen said.In the past, most undocumented immigrants entering the United States from Mexico were single men looking for work. But over the past year, the number of migrants traveling together as a family has soared — a point that Ms. Nielsen sought to underscore.Officials have said migrants — and the smugglers who exploit them — know they are unlikely to be detained if they travel with a child.Under a court order, the government is prohibited from keeping children in holding facilities at the border for more than 72 hours. Children must either be transferred to immigration detention facilities suitable for minors, or be released.The government has allowed thousands of detained migrants to go free each week because it lacks enough beds to hold them in family detention facilities. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a branch of Ms. Nielsen’s department, can accommodate only 3,326 parents and children in its three residential family centers.Democrats also criticized Ms. Nielsen for not adequately keeping track of migrant children who were separated from their parents last year.“You let kids be separated without tracking them. Do you know how outrageous that is, Madam Secretary?” said Representative Nanette Barragán, Democrat of California. “You have no feeling, no compassion, no empathy here.”Ms. Nielsen did not respond.The practice, part of a “zero tolerance” immigration policy that drew swift condemnation after it was publicly announced last spring, quickly became a symbol of the president’s crackdown on illegal immigration. At the time, Ms. Nielsen repeatedly denied that her department had a policy of routinely separating migrant children from their parents at the border, despite mounting evidence that thousands of families had been broken apart.During a news conference in June at the White House, she said she was offended by accusations that she would authorize separating children from their parents to send a message of deterrence. But the department continued to separate families until Mr. Trump, facing enormous public pressure, signed an executive order meant to end the policy.Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and the committee’s chairman, said he had requested documents on the treatment of asylum seekers at the border and family separations. After Wednesday’s hearing, Mr. Thompson told reporters that he expected that information within a week and was prepared to use subpoena powers as a “last resort.”“The secretary can choose whether to be complicit in this administration’s misinformation campaign,” Mr. Thompson said, “or she can correct the record.”For much of her tenure, Ms. Nielsen has been the subject of Mr. Trump’s ire over illegal immigration and border security.Mr. Trump berated her privately for not doing enough to stop illegal immigration and accelerate construction of a wall along the border with Mexico. The president grew repeatedly angry with Ms. Nielsen for telling him that his ideas to stop immigration would be illegal or improper.By year’s end, reports were rampant that Mr. Trump wanted to fire Ms. Nielsen, but her credibility with the president has since improved. During the government’s 35-day shutdown over funding for the president’s border wall, Ms. Nielsen was a fierce advocate for the wall.And on Wednesday morning, Ms. Nielsen made clear she would not stray far from the president’s anti-immigrant language.“We face a crisis — a real, serious and sustained crisis at our borders,” Ms. Nielsen said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie HabermanThe former White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, on Wednesday declined to answer questions about the existence of a memo he wrote saying that President Trump had ordered officials to give his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, a security clearance in May 2018.Mr. Kelly also broke with Mr. Trump on key aspects of his approach to immigration and the NATO alliance, and said that his top concern about decisions made by the president was whether they were objectively right for the country when divorced from political concerns.Mr. Kelly, who kept his voice level during a 90-minute question-and-answer session at Duke University, would not specifically address Mr. Kushner’s clearance being ordered by Mr. Trump, which The New York Times reported last week.“I couldn’t — and I’m not dodging — I couldn’t comment on that for a couple of reasons,” Mr. Kelly said, citing clearances being among the things that he could not discuss, and that conversations with the president “at that level would certainly” be kept confidential under executive privilege.Asked specifically about whether he had ever created memos for the record, Mr. Kelly said, “I’d prefer not to talk about that.”Mr. Trump ordered the chief of staff to get Mr. Kushner a clearance after it stalled for most of the first half of the president’s term over concerns from the F.B.I. and career security officials about Mr. Kushner’s personal foreign contacts, as well as those related to his family’s real-estate business.Mr. Trump has the legal authority to overrule recommendations from security clearance officials. But his action added to ongoing questions about how people obtained them, and it contradicted a statement at the time from Mr. Kushner’s lawyer that his clearance went through a normal process. And the president himself asserted to The Times in an Oval Office interview in January that he had not directed Mr. Kelly or anyone else to grant a clearance.In his conversation at Duke with Professor Peter Feaver, Mr. Kelly said that his 18 months as the chief of staff were the “least” favorite job he had held, but the most important. He acknowledged that his colleagues in the Marine Corps, where he served as a four-star general, might not like hearing that.However, Mr. Kelly said, during that time, Mr. Trump “went from a guy who didn’t know how the system works” to one “who understands how it works.”Mr. Kelly, who left at the end of December, also made clear he did not consider himself working for Mr. Trump, but doing his civic duty to serve. If Hillary Clinton had won, he said, he probably would have worked for her as well.Mr. Kelly defended the utility of the NATO alliance, which Mr. Trump has often criticized as an unfair financial drain on the United States.On a wall at the border with Mexico, Mr. Kelly said that there were specific areas where it could be effective but constructing one “from sea to shining sea” was a “waste of money.”The issuance of the zero-tolerance policy for border crossings that resulted in family separations “came as a surprise” to him and to other officials, Mr. Kelly said, defending his replacement as secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Kirstjen Nielsen, from criticism. He appeared to place most of the blame on the former attorney general, Jeff Sessions, who announced the policy.Of people crossing the border who are apprehended, Mr. Kelly contradicted the president. “They’re overwhelmingly not criminals — they’re people coming up here for economic” purposes. Mr. Trump has regularly portrayed immigrants crossing at the southern border as dangerous lawbreakers.He also joked wryly about the advice he gave his successor, Mick Mulvaney: “Run for it,” Mr. Kelly said, to laughter. On a serious note, he said, he told him the chief of staff’s job was to tell the president “what he needs to hear.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byheads upThe fence along the Mexican border was once such a deterrent to visitors that it helped drive Rancho de la Osa out of business. Now the barrier is an attraction for the dude ranch. By Elaine GlusacThe 90-minute drive from Tucson to Rancho de la Osa, a recently reopened dude ranch on the border with Mexico, is a lonely one. Turning onto Highway 286, your car may be the only southbound vehicle for 44 miles while the occasional U.S. Border Patrol van trolls north. The road runs directly to the border fence, here made up of eerie metal posts spaced less than a foot apart, at the town of Sasabe. Minutes before reaching it, a right turn onto a dirt road delivers you to the historic adobe ranch, painted a warm terra cotta, with a porch lined with turquoise Adirondack chairs.“You got the right place, and we got the right horse,” said a cowboy in the driveway, when I pulled in last winter, fully living up to wrangler stereotype with a handlebar mustache and weathered 10-gallon hat.Once, the border fence was such a strong deterrent to visitors that it helped drive the 1920s dude ranch out of business. But, if anything, President Trump’s campaign for a border wall has helped revive interest in a region that already has a barrier at the border.“Like Trump or hate Trump, now the border is an attraction,” said Russell True, who with partners, bought Rancho de la Osa at auction complete with its vintage western furnishings and period art in late 2016. They don’t publicize the ranch’s proximity to the border fence and had hoped the border would be a neutral feature of the ranch. Instead, Mr. True said it has piqued the interest of guests. “The first thing they want to do is see the wall,” he said. “We could not have planned for the political shift and that it would become interesting.”Originally opened in the 1920s, Rancho de la Osa drew many celebrated guests, including Joan Crawford, Cesar Romero and John Wayne, for whom three of the 18 bedrooms are named (double room rates from $235 a person, all inclusive). The cowboy actor of the silent film era, Tom Mix, made one of his many films here. Authors checked in too, including the western novelist Zane Grey and Margaret Mitchell. Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lyndon B. Johnson led the political A-list along with William Clayton, who drafted the Marshall Plan to aid European countries after World War II in a two-bedroom house on the property.More current events also helped drive the ranch out of business, according to Mr. True, who also co-owns White Stallion Ranch near Tucson. In 2010, Jan Brewer then the governor of Arizona, decried beheadings in the desert she said were linked to illegal immigration and drug trafficking, allegations that were never corroborated and that she later called an error on her part. “We just had an absolute, possibly even slightly irrational need to save it,” Mr. True told me as we sat in the main lodge, where the adobe walls are washed in orange, red and yellow hues and an antique leather sofa is embossed with an image of a saddle. “Somebody else would have bought it, but nobody else was going to run it as a dude ranch.”As a dude ranch, the 590-acre Rancho de la Osa, restored and reopened in 2017, offers more than vintage charm. Beyond the central compound, which includes an outdoor swimming pool and a bar in a building dating back to 1720, lies some of the lushest areas of the Sonoran Desert, at about a 3,500-foot elevation, and the distinctive Baboquivari Peak, which is considered sacred to the indigenous Tohono O’odham people.Horseback riding is the main activity here but the new owners have expanded activities to include fat-tire electric mountain biking, off-road vehicle tours, clay-pigeon shooting and bird-watching trips to the neighboring Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge, a 117,500-acre preserve with grasslands that resemble the savannas of Africa.10 milesTucsonTohono O’odhamnation reservation86286ArizonaBaboquivari Peak19Rancho dela Osa Buenos Aires NationalWildlife RefugeSasabeNogalesMexicoBy The New York TimesIn addition to exploring the desert, morning and afternoon rides introduce guests to the ranch’s veteran wranglers Ross and Lynne Knox. The couple’s stories, including his close brushes with death running pack-mule trains in the Grand Canyon, conjured a western past that doesn’t seem so distant here in some of the more desolate parts of the southern border.“If you’re not living on the edge,” he said with a chuckle about his daring cowboy lifestyle, “then you’re taking up too much space.”Of course, the degree to which the desert is deserted is up for debate, and on my first ride I spotted the well-patrolled fence -— mostly out of sight from the ranch dwellings — that undulates east with the hills as far as the eye can see.It abruptly stops at the nearby territory of the Tohono O’odham people who have prevented the fence, erected in 2007, from crossing tribal land. When the Knoxes drove me and four fellow guests in an off-road cart to see it, we took turns walking around to the Mexican side of the border and posing for photos. A few foot paths snaked into the hills on the American side staked with spiky ocotillo cactus.Still, it was easy to forget about politics in a place where a juvenile great horned owl, flying low at dusk, roosted in a tree just 10 feet from my patio seat, and where cozy rooms with original fireplaces came stocked with mesquite wood. Mr. Knox, a celebrated cowboy poet, recited some of his work after dinner, concluding “when the memories come calling, you still can’t help but pray/Lord, please make me a cowboy again for a day.”Follow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Caitlin DickersonThe number of migrant families crossing the southwest border has once again broken records, with unauthorized entries nearly double what they were a year ago, suggesting that the Trump administration’s aggressive policies have not discouraged new migration to the United States.More than 76,000 migrants crossed the border without authorization in February, an 11-year high and a strong sign that stepped-up prosecutions, new controls on asylum and harsher detention policies have not reversed what remains a powerful lure for thousands of families fleeing violence and poverty.“The system is well beyond capacity, and remains at the breaking point,” Kevin K. McAleenan, commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, told reporters in announcing the new data on Tuesday.The nation’s top border enforcement officer painted a picture of processing centers filled to capacity, border agents struggling to meet medical needs and thousands of exhausted members of migrant families crammed into a detention system that was not built to house them — all while newcomers continue to arrive, sometimes by the busload, at the rate of 2,200 a day.“This is clearly both a border security and a humanitarian crisis,” Mr. McAleenan said.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]President Trump has used the escalating numbers to justify his plan to build an expanded wall along the 1,900-mile border with Mexico. But a wall would do little to slow migration, most immigration analysts say. While the exact numbers are not known, many of those apprehended along the southern border, including the thousands who present themselves at legal ports of entry, surrender voluntarily to Border Patrol agents and eventually submit legal asylum claims.Obama34,647BushAverage per month: 81,588Trump32,012150,000100,00050,0002001200320052007200920112013201520172019Trump32,012Obama34,647Bush81,588 Average per month 150,000100,00050,00020012005200920132017People travelingwith family: 36,17430,000Others: 23,45120,00010,000Unaccompaniedchildren: 6,825Jan. 2016JulyJan. 2017JulyJan. 2018JulyJan. 2019People travelingwith family30,00020,000Others10,000Unaccompaniedchildren2016201720182019Source: U.S. Customs and Border ProtectionBy The New York TimesThe main problem is not one of uncontrolled masses scaling the fences, but a humanitarian challenge created as thousands of migrant families surge into remote areas where the administration has so far failed to devote sufficient resources to care for them, as is required under the law.The latest numbers stung an administration that has over the past two years introduced a rash of aggressive policies intended to deter migrants from journeying to the United States, including separating families, limiting entries at official ports and requiring some asylum seekers to wait in Mexico through the duration of their immigration cases.More than 50,000 adults are currently in Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody, the highest number ever.Despite targeted successes in certain areas — about 2,000 migrants who traveled in a caravan from Central America last year appeared to have given up their cause as of last month after being discouraged by long delays in Tijuana — migrants seem only to have adjusted their routes rather than turn back. Indeed, they are traveling in even larger numbers than before.[Read more about why more migrants are crossing the border.]Arrests along the southern border have increased 97 percent since last year, the Border Patrol said, with a 434 percent increase in the El Paso sector, which covers the state of New Mexico and the two westernmost counties of Texas. Families, mainly from Central America, continue to arrive in ever-larger groups in remote parts of the southwest.At least 70 such groups of 100 or more people have turned themselves in at Border Patrol stations that typically are staffed by only a handful of agents, often hours away from civilization. By comparison, only 13 such groups arrived in the last fiscal year, and two in the year before.Understanding what is happening on the border is difficult because, while the numbers are currently higher than they have been in several years, they are nowhere near the historic levels of migration seen across the southwest border. Arrests for illegally crossing the border reached up to 1.64 million in 2000, under President Clinton. In the 2018 fiscal year, they reached 396,579. For the first five months of the current fiscal year, 268,044 have been apprehended.The difference is that the nature of immigration has changed, and the demographics of those arriving now are proving more taxing for border officials to accommodate. Most of those entering the country in earlier years were single men, most of them from Mexico, coming to look for work. If they were arrested, they could quickly be deported.Now, the majority of border crossers are not single men but families — fathers from Honduras with adolescent boys they are pulling away from gang violence, mothers with toddlers from Guatemala whose farms have been lost to drought. While they may not have a good case to remain in the United States permanently, it is not so easy to speedily deport them if they arrive with children and claim protection under the asylum laws.Families with children can be held in detention for no longer than 20 days, under a much-debated court ruling, and since there are a limited number of detention centers certified to hold families, the practical effect is that most families are released into the country to await their hearings in immigration court. The courts are so backlogged that it could take months or years for cases to be decided. Some people never show up for court at all.Finally, detaining families even for the first few days after their arrival in the United States, while they are undergoing initial processing, is also a challenging job.Often arriving exhausted, dehydrated, and some of them requiring urgent medical care, the families need food, diapers, infant formula and space to play. They can often spend days inside cramped concrete cells that were built to house the previous generation of border crossers — young, single men who would likely be there only a few hours.As part of the announcements on Tuesday, Mr. McAleenan also said the agency is making sweeping changes to procedures for guaranteeing adequate medical care for migrants — an overhaul brought on by the deaths of two migrant children in the agency’s custody in December. The measures, which include comprehensive health screenings for all migrant children and a new processing center in El Paso that would help provide better shelter and medical care for migrant families, are an attempt to fix years of health care inadequacies that have left many at risk.The agency will also expand medical contracts to place health care practitioners — largely registered nurses and nurse practitioners — in “high-risk” and high-traffic locations along the border. It will also dedicate more money for translation services to meet increasing demand from Central Americans, many of whom speak indigenous languages and dialects and may not be able to communicate their needs in English or Spanish.[Read: Border Patrol Facilities Put Detainees With Medical Conditions at Risk]“These solutions are temporary and this situation is not sustainable,” Mr. McAleenan said.Mr. McAleenan said the authorities believe that the large numbers of families are coming because smugglers have effectively communicated across Central America that adults who travel with children will be allowed to enter and stay in the United States.Brian Hastings, the agency’s chief of law enforcement operations, said that since April 2018, border agents had detected nearly 2,400 “false families,” including cases in which migrants had falsely claimed to be related when they were not, or untruthfully claimed to be younger than 18.The throngs of new families are also affecting communities on the American side of the border. In El Paso, a volunteer network that temporarily houses the migrants after they are released from custody has had to expand to 20 facilities, compared with only three during the same period last year. Migrants are now being housed in churches, a converted nursing home and about 125 hotel rooms that are being paid for with donations.“We had never seen these kinds of numbers,” said Ruben Garcia, the director of the organization, called Annunciation House. He said that during one week in February, immigration authorities had released more than 3,600 migrants to his organization, the highest number in any single week since the group’s founding in 1978.For the most part, Mr. Garcia said that his staff and volunteer workers had been able to keep up with the surge, often making frantic calls to churches to request access to more space for housing families on short notice. But sometimes their best efforts were upended, he said, including on one day last week, when the authorities dropped off 150 more migrants than planned.“We just didn’t have the space,” Mr. Garcia said.Reporting was contributed by Miriam Jordan in Los Angeles, Sheri Fink in New York and Zolan Kanno-Youngs from Washington.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTrump’s cruel separation of immigrant families continued after he declared he was ending the practice.By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistPresident Trump claimed last June to have ended the practice of separating immigrant families at the southern border. “We are going to keep the families together,” he declared from the Oval Office.Mr. President, meet Clemente and his daughter Wendy, both fleeing gang violence in Guatemala. Your administration separated them six months ago and kept them apart.These family separations, continuing but at a lower level than before, are an element of the real “emergency” at the border — the one also involving physical and sexual abuse of immigrant children in U.S. custody and systematic deception from Washington.The paradox is that Trump’s cruel policy to deter desperate immigrants appears counterproductive; apparently the furor it provoked drew attention to the possibility of migration. The result is a surge of Central American families traveling to the United States, with the number crossing the border far higher than a year earlier.[Follow Nicholas Kristof as he travels around the United States and the world, shedding light on crises and hailing unsung heroes. For a behind-the-scenes look at Nick’s gritty journalism, sign up for his newsletter.]Clemente, 34, is from a small Guatemalan village. He doesn’t want to use his last name because of all he has been through at the hands of the U.S. government. There is no way to verify parts of his story, but individuals who work with immigrants say it rings true.A gang in Guatemala murdered his cousin, and last year gangsters stabbed Clemente’s father and sent warnings to Clemente: “It’s now your turn.”Terrified, Clemente fled with his eldest daughter, Wendy, then 15, leaving his wife and five other, younger children, whom he did not believe the gang would target. He feared that the gang would abduct Wendy, an excellent student who loves books, and he could not bear that thought.They crossed Mexico without serious incident, then waded across the Rio Grande and turned themselves in to Border Patrol officers, requesting asylum. That was Aug. 20, two months after Trump said he had ended the family separation policy. But officials promptly separated Clemente and Wendy.Clemente was put in a “hielera,” or ice box, notorious detention rooms predating Trump that are kept cold. Clemente, wet from the river crossing, was soon freezing as well as hungry and weak because he had given his food to Wendy. “As a dad, the last thing you want is for your daughter to suffer,” he explained simply. “So I gave everything to her.”In this frail state, he caught pneumonia and passed out. Many hours went by before he was taken to a hospital, unconscious and gravely ill. Inadequate health care in detention centers is common, and two migrant children died in December in Border Patrol custody.“I woke up in the hospital, and I didn’t know where I was,” Clemente told me. “It was a nightmare. My first question was, ‘Where’s my daughter?’” After he was released from the hospital and later from detention, he found himself on the streets of Brownsville, Tex.“He was distraught and he was crying,” recalled Sergio Cordova, a volunteer in Brownsville who does heroic work with immigrants, funded by donations, and discovered Clemente at the bus station. “I gave him a hug and he started saying he can’t find his daughter, he doesn’t know where his daughter is.”Eventually, Clemente discovered that she was in a shelter. She was allowed to telephone him once a week, but not return to his care; his voice broke as he described her as “an angel from God.”Immigration is a complicated challenge, but ripping families apart isn’t the solution. Perhaps the best approach is to help improve security in Central America so that people like Clemente need not flee. Some anti-gang initiatives there have been very successful in reducing murder rates that drive migration.“If it were peaceful, I’d like to be back there where I grew up,” said Clemente, who received help from Immigrant Families Together in his quest to reunite with his daughter. “I’d love to be in the land where I was born.”The Texas Civil Rights Project found that at least 272 adults were separated from a child family member in the six months after Trump supposedly ended family separation. The youngest to be separated was an 8-month-old girl taken from her mother.Officials are less likely now to separate parents from children, but they continue to separate grandparents from grandchildren, siblings from siblings. The day I spoke with Cordova, the volunteer, he was helping two brothers from Honduras who had no other family left: Junior, 21, had raised Andy, 7.When gang members brutally beat up Junior for refusing to sell drugs for them, he fled with Andy to the United States — and officials separated them on arrival six months ago. So little Andy is now in a shelter, apart from the only person who has loved and protected him.“I see this all the time,” Cordova told me. “They cry with me, I cry with them.”Finally, there was a break in Clemente’s case. On Wednesday night, the authorities released Wendy to him. After six months apart, they had a teary reunion.“I thought I might never get her back again,” Clemente said. “I am very thankful.”So, yes, President Trump, you’re right that there’s an emergency at the border. It’s a humanitarian crisis of family separation that you helped create.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.  @NickKristof • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesWelcome to Crossing the Border, a limited-run weekly newsletter from The New York Times. Like what you see? Send this to a friend. If someone forwarded it to you, sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.Floating above the cactus-pear cocktails and gourmet tacos, a green mosaic rises above the plaza just on the Mexico side of the Tijuana border: ESTACION FEDERAL. There are Edison-bulb patio lights and metal fire pits. Textures of reclaimed wood and concrete and succulents. In the back, a food truck doubles as a southwestern mural, a blur of orange and yellow and purple.This Instagram-ready commons in chaotic Tijuana is the brainchild of Miguel Marshall, a cross-border entrepreneur whose vision of a binational border between Mexico and the United States has grown even more resolute in the era of President Trump. He is the chief executive of Centro Ventures, a Tijuana-based real estate development company that is creating work-and-living spaces like this, with carefully curated food, coffee, co-working units and even Airbnb lofts.Mr. Marshall’s entrepreneurial work has earned him cachet among business leaders in Mexico and the United States. He has been designated as one of Tijuana’s “global shapers” by the World Economic Forum, which holds the annual gathering of world economic leaders in Davos, Switzerland.Estacion Federal is just a five-minute walk from Mexico’s El Chaparral border crossing, “a little south of south San Diego, a little north of north Tijuana,” as the spot is promoted online. Mr. Marshall sees it as a prototype for rejuvenating the Mexican border city — part artistic community, part commuter waypoint and part gastro-utopia.His vision is to bring Americans and Mexicans together for good food, drinks and conversation.This project is partly grounded in his biography. Mr. Marshall was born in San Diego but grew up in Tijuana. He was named after his father, Michael Marshall, but his parents gave him the Spanish-language version of the name so he would not be bullied in Mexican schools.“I’m a border baby,” he said with a laugh.For several years, the border across the Southwest has been in the midst of an economic boom, with new businesses and stores springing up to serve middle-class Mexican customers who have permission to cross into the United States on day trips. The problem Mr. Marshall sees is that much of the investment along the border, at least in California, has happened on the American side.In San Ysidro — San Diego’s border district, on the American side — visitors can find hundreds of businesses, from big outlet malls to small family shops.On the Mexican side, by contrast, there are miles of run-down homes and parking garages. The neighborhood does little to show visitors Tijuana’s vibrant culture, Mr. Marshall said, or to entice Americans to venture south.“First impressions matter,” said Mr. Marshall, who slips repeatedly between Spanish and English when he talks. “The cross-border lifestyle, we’re trying to brand that as a way of living.”The small Estacion Federal plaza offers vegetarian tacos, pizza, carefully sourced coffee and a cocktail bar. It is all highly curated.On a recent Friday evening at the Cereus Bar, patrons from both sides of the border wore skinny jeans and leather jackets. The aesthetic was familiar — classic American hipsterdom by way of a CB2 catalog — augmented by the sounds and smells and tastes of gourmet Mexico. One of the signature cocktails is a prickly-pear drink made from the juice of cactus fruit — known as “tuna” in Spanish — sourced at Mercado Hidalgo, the famed farmers’ market in Tijuana. It is the most expensive item on the menu: 130 pesos, or a little less than $7.Mr. Marshall said he hoped to draw an American clientele to his plaza, but he also wants Cereus to be a neighborhood bar. He envisions young people leaving work in San Diego and stopping at the pizza and taco shops before a night out in Tijuana’s nightclub district.“The best of both worlds,” he said.—JOSE A. DEL REAL in San Ysidro, Calif., and Tijuana, MexicoJose is one of a team of Times journalists currently deployed along the border. Each week they will be sharing a slice of their reporting about the border and the people who spend time on both sides of it.Do you have questions about life on the border? Or feedback about this newsletter? Email us at: crossingtheborder@nytimes.com.Some 76,000 migrants crossed the border without authorization in February, according to data released by the United States government on Tuesday.It was the fourth time in five months that the number of migrant families crossing the southwest border has broken records, border enforcement authorities said. The number was more than double the same period last year. Read the full story here, from Caitlin Dickerson, a Times immigration reporter.Miriam Jordan, a Times immigration correspondent, dived into those numbers and explained why, despite President Trump’s efforts to halt the arrival of undocumented migrants, they have continued to rise. The short version? More people from impoverished areas of Central America, and more families instead of single men, are choosing to make the journey. Read that story here. The border has been in the headlines in Washington this week. Here’s how to catch up, and go deeper.• On Wednesday, House Democrats grilled Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, over a host of border issues, including the deaths of migrant children in federal custody and last year’s policy of separating families at the border. She was defiant in the face of criticism of the administration, and defended President Trump’s claim that the situation at the border was a national emergency. Read the story here, and go here for clips of Ms. Nielsen’s testimony.• Ms. Nielsen was questioned about the care migrants receive in custody. A Times investigation found shortfalls in health care provided to migrants, who sometimes arrive with serious illness and injury. Read the story here.• Senate leaders this week announced that, with several Republicans joining the Democrats, they had enough votes to block Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the border. It would be a stern rebuke to the president over his plan to fund a wall. Read more about the Republicans who oppose the declaration — and why they do — here. • Meanwhile, Times reporters found that the Trump administration has a surprising new ally in Mexico: the Mexican government. The country’s leaders have promised to defend migrants, but Mexico’s new president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, is trying to prevent conflict with Mr. Trump, and officials are carrying out the Trump administration’s immigration agenda across wide stretches of the border. Read the story here.Read earlier installments of Crossing the Border here. Sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.AdvertisementCreditCreditDaniel Brenner for The New York TimesSupported byBy Julie TurkewitzPhotographs by Daniel BrennerDENVER — Just hours stood between Jorge Zaldivar and his meeting with immigration officials, and so once again his family gathered to say goodbye.Nearly a million people in the United States have received deportation orders but have managed to stay in the country anyway, often hanging on through postponements granted to them at check-ins with immigration officials. For years, those appointments were largely routine, and most people went in expecting to receive another temporary reprieve.That changed when the Trump administration said it would expand deportation priorities to include anyone who had crossed the border illegally. And in the last two years, in households across the country, the dinner before a check-in has turned into a grim ritual, with families never sure whether or not this meal is the last they share together.[Read about a mother and daughter who were seeking asylum — they both have H.I.V. but only one was allowed entry.]The Zaldivar children — Francysco, 8, Aanahny, 10, Dyego, 14, Yolanda, 20, and Josefyna, 23 — all United States citizens, have lived in a cycle of check-ins and court dates for most of their lives. Their father crossed into the country illegally in 1997 and has been trying to gain legal residency through his wife, Christina, also a citizen, for more than a decade.That has failed, and the Zaldivars said goodbye to their father on June 7, 2017, on July 5, 2017, and on Jan. 10, 2018, and then four more times last year. In late February, The New York Times followed them on the night before Mr. Zaldivar’s latest immigration appointment.Ms. Zaldivar, 39, who is of Navajo and Southern Ute descent, never expected to be in this position. She married her husband in 2005, when she was a single mother of three. At the time, it did not occur to her to think much about his immigration status.“You don’t fall in love and say: ‘Hi, nice to meet you, do you have papers?’” she said. “I didn’t care if he had papers or not. He treated me right after an abusive marriage.”Mostly, she said, she experiences guilt and anger over what all this has done to her children. Her oldest daughter skipped college to help pay her father’s legal fees. Her middle son has started lashing out at teachers, unable to explain to them what is happening at home.At dinner, the house filled with relatives.When everyone had a plate of chicken and rice, Ms. Zaldivar called for silence.She had received an email earlier that day from a congressional aide helping with their case. The aide had heard from immigration officials.“Dad’s stay was denied,” Ms. Zaldivar said, looking at her children. “Tomorrow when he goes in to check in, they’re not going to let him come out.”In the morning, at the breakfast table, Ms. Zaldivar hauled out a blue tote she had prepared for her husband, with a list of medications and hotel-size toiletries, meant to help him if or when he arrived in Mexico.Mr. Zaldivar took out his wallet and removed his driver’s license, his worker’s permit and a piece of paper bearing his social security number.He handed them to his wife for safekeeping, and slipped $100 into the billfold.Then he went into his youngest daughter’s room, where he began to clean, packing her toys into the dollhouse, organizing the stacks of Girl Scout cookies.“I’m stressed,” he said. “I want to this to be over.”“Let’s go,” Ms. Zaldivar called.Mr. Zaldivar took the wheel of the family truck, and everyone climbed inside.Across town, on the yellowed grass outside the federal immigration building, a few activists had arrived to show their support.Mr. Zaldivar’s wife took his arm.“Ready?” he said quietly.Together they crossed the road, Ms. Zaldivar gripping the blue tote, and then disappeared.His children watched.Then, not 20 minutes in, a shout went up from one of the activists.The Zaldivars, both of them, were walking out the building’s glass doors.Ms. Zaldivar approached her children, her voice unsteady. Her husband had been granted one more monthlong postponement, she said, but this time “he has to come back with a ticket — a bus ticket, a plane ticket, something showing he is going to exit in 30 days.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del Real and Zolan Kanno-YoungsLOS ANGELES — In an attempt to determine who was behind the caravans that were bringing large numbers of migrants from Central America to the southwest border, the Trump administration created a list of activists and journalists whom they subjected to additional scrutiny when they entered the United States last year.Federal immigration authorities faced criticism on Thursday after an internal government document, obtained by NBC 7 San Diego, suggested that immigration activists and journalists were specifically singled out for extra screening at border entry points by the United States and Mexican governments.Many of those on the list had traveled with the migrant caravans as they arrived in Mexican border cities from Central America to seek asylum. Others on the list, according to lawyers representing them, had provided legal assistance or aid to migrants, but had not traveled with the caravans at all.Customs and Border Protection officials said they had identified people because they may have had information in connection to assaults against Border Patrol agents that took place last November and in January, but said that gathering this type of information was standard.“C.B.P. does not target journalists for inspection based on their occupation or their reporting,” Andrew Meehan, the agency’s assistant commissioner of public affairs, said in a statement, adding that C.B.P. “has policies in place that prohibit discrimination against arriving travelers and has specific provisions regarding encounters with journalists.”Nonetheless, the inspector general for the Homeland Security Department opened an inquiry last month, with C.B.P., “to ensure that all appropriate policies and practices were followed.”In Washington, lawmakers on the House Homeland Security Committee sent a letter on Thursday to Customs and Border Protection criticizing the list and said it raised serious legal and constitutional questions.Esha Bhandari, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, said that targeting reporters or advocates for secondary screening and extended detention on the basis of their work was a violation of their rights. Ms. Bhandari said the A.C.L.U. was monitoring developments in the cases and exploring all legal options.“The implications of this are really disturbing,” she said. “It is unconstitutional for the government to target people for punishment or retaliation solely based on their first amendment protected activity.”[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]Go Nakamura, a freelance photographer whose work has appeared in The New York Times and who was on the list, said he had suspected for several months that his name had been flagged to immigration officials.In an interview Thursday, he recalled being stopped by Mexican authorities in late December while he was near the border fence in Tijuana to take photographs of migrants. The officers asked to see Mr. Nakamura’s passport, something he had not experienced during other lengthy assignments on the border, he said. He thought it was strange when the officers took photos of his passport on cellphones.Mr. Nakamura, an American citizen, tried to re-enter the United States several days later, and initially faced routine questions. He was asked about his background, where he lived, where he went to school. He was also asked about when he began working as a photojournalist.But the questioning began to alarm Mr. Nakamura when an officer pulled out a document with pictures of about 10 to 14 faces and asked him to identify them.“They asked me if I recognized any of the faces,” Mr. Nakamura said. “I didn’t, so I said no. The officer who showed me the papers, she was asking me if I was connected with the organizers of the caravan. She was like, have you met the organizers or do I know the organizers?”“I felt like they thought I was a spy or something,” Mr. Nakamura said.Kitra Cahana, a freelance photographer on the list whose work has also appeared in The Times, said she was barred from entering Mexico on Jan. 17 while she was en route to photograph another caravan of migrants traveling through the country. As she was about to board a flight from Montreal to Detroit, she scanned her passport at a pre-clearance machine, which printed out a picture with an “X over my face.” She was taken into secondary questioning in Montreal, but was ultimately allowed to board her flight.In Mexico City, she was again detained. That time she was held for about 13 hours, she said, before being officially denied entry to Mexico.Mexican authorities confiscated her American passport and cellphone during that period. She was escorted to a flight back to Detroit. Later that month, on Jan. 26, she said she tried to cross into Mexico from Guatemala, and was denied entry.Ms. Bhandari said there were specific rules outlined by the Justice Department that the government must follow when questioning journalists, which, she said, Customs and Border Protection may have violated.“The existence of these dossiers can have a real chilling effect,” Ms. Bhandari said. “It can suggest to other journalists that if they dare to report on activities that are embarrassing to the United States government, you too can be singled out for this harsh treatment.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article suggested incorrectly that all of the people on the government list had traveled with migrant caravans. Some people traveled with caravans; others provided aid or legal support for the migrants, but did not travel with them.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam Jordan and Caitlin DickersonOAKLAND, Calif. — Nearly nine months after the Trump administration officially rescinded its policy of separating migrant families who have illegally crossed the border, more than 200 migrant children have been taken from parents and other relatives and placed in institutional care, with some spending months in shelters and foster homes thousands of miles away from their parents.The latest data reported to the federal judge monitoring one of the most controversial of President Trump’s immigration policies shows that 245 children have been removed from their families since the court ordered the government to halt routine separations under last spring’s “zero tolerance” border enforcement policy. Some of the new separations are being undertaken with no clear documentation to help track the children’s whereabouts.Images of crying mothers and children at the border last year prompted an intense backlash across party lines, with all four living former first ladies and Melania Trump expressing horror at the policy. But despite President Trump’s June 20 executive order rescinding it, the practice was never completely suspended.Under the original policy, most children were removed because parents who illegally crossed the border were subject to criminal prosecution. The recent separations have occurred largely because parents have been flagged for fraud, a communicable disease or past criminal history — in some cases relatively minor violations, years in the past, that ordinarily would not lead to the loss of parental custody.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The new separations are taking place amid an unprecedented influx of migrant families from across the southern border that has highlighted the failure of the Trump administration’s hard-line policies to deter them. The Border Patrol detained 76,103 migrants in February, an 11-year high for that month. Among those intercepted were about 40,000 members of families, two-thirds more than in January.In Congress last week, Democrats grilled Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, over the separation policy, citing research that has found that separations from parents can inflict long-term psychological harm on children.Family separations also sometimes occurred under the Obama administration, but only rarely and in extreme cases in which a child’s safety appeared to be at risk.Customs and Border Protection officials say the separations are legal under the parameters set by the court and are intended to protect children, who they say may be threatened by human trafficking or by adults pretending to be a parent to capitalize on the advantage that gives them under American immigration laws.“C.B.P. does not declare that a parent poses danger to a child arbitrarily or without merit,” the agency said in a statement. It said agents “will maintain family unity to the greatest extent operationally feasible,” separating children only in the presence of “a legal requirement” set out in written policy or “an articulable safety or security concern that requires separation.”But opposition to the new separations has been growing from both outside and inside the federal government. At the Health and Human Services Department’s Office of Refugee Resettlement, which oversees the care of separated children until they can be reunited with their families, some officials have tried to resist receiving children referred to the agency by the Border Patrol.According to an official who was not authorized to discuss government business and spoke on the condition of anonymity, staff members have in some cases raised questions with Border Patrol agents about separations with what appear to be little or no justification. In some of those cases, border agents have refused to provide additional information, the official said, or if additional documents were provided, they were sometimes redacted to the point of illegibility.The official, along with another staff member at the Department of Homeland Security, the Border Patrol’s parent agency, said that some separations were occurring with no formal notification to the refugee resettlement office. Both officials said they had been made aware of concerns about an apparent inconsistency in standards applied by border agents when determining whether a family should be separated.The failure to keep accurate records suggests that more children could have been separated than the 245 accounted for by Feb. 20 in official records.The New York Times reviewed several cases of children who have been separated since the policy was officially ended, and learned of many others through the lawyers who handled them. Some of the new separations, the review showed, occurred in families with a parent who had a drunken-driving conviction in the past, or a 20-year-old nonviolent robbery conviction. In one case, a parent had been convicted of possession of a small amount of marijuana.Donna Abbott, vice president for refugee and immigrant services at Bethany Christian Services, a contractor that accommodates migrant children in temporary foster homes until they can be reunited with family members, said most cases of family separations do not list detailed reasons, making it difficult to evaluate whether they were appropriate.For example, some files state only that the parent was suspected of having gang affiliations or a criminal history, without additional information. “Is it trespassing or is it murder?” Ms. Abbott said.In December, a mother traveling from El Salvador with her three children was arrested and put on a bus to an immigration detention facility in Arizona while her children, ages 5, 8 and 15, were sent to foster care in New York.The woman, Deisy Ramirez, 38, said it was nearly six weeks before she talked to her children.They were “devastated,” said Ms. Ramirez’s sister, Silvia Ramirez, who was trying to persuade the government to allow her to take the children to live with her in Seattle while her sister was in custody. “They couldn’t understand why they were separated,” she said.On March 1, Ms. Ramirez’s eldest daughter was transferred to a hospital after threatening to take her own life, Silvia Ramirez said, and she remained there even after her mother’s release from detention last week.“I never imagined this could happen,” Deisy Ramirez said on Friday, her voice breaking. “All I want is to hold my children and to be with them.”Her lawyer, Ricardo de Anda, said he had received no response to his formal request for a reason for the separation. He suspects it may be connected to the fact that Ms. Ramirez had been deported from the United States more than a decade ago. He sent government lawyers a series of emails, ultimately securing her release.On Saturday, the day after her release from the Arizona detention facility, Ms. Ramirez was preparing to fly to New York to reunite with her children.Border agents removed 3-year-old Ashley Ramos from her father after they were detained last month in Arizona. He was swiftly deported to Guatemala and the girl was sent to a shelter.The child’s mother, Silvia Maribel Ramos, who had been separated from the pair during their journey from Guatemala when Mexican police pulled her and other migrants off their bus for questioning, arrived in Arizona a few days later, only to learn from authorities that her child was gone.“They told me they had no idea where she was, that I would find out after being released,” said Ms. Ramos, who is staying with relatives in Oakland, Calif.The child was located nearly two weeks later, she said, after her husband contacted Guatemalan authorities back home. Now Ms. Ramos is struggling with the paperwork required to recover Ashley. “My daughter can’t understand. She just weeps and begs to be with us,” she said.In late January, Victor Antonio Marin was separated from his 4-year-old son, whose mother is deceased, after they were detained near Calexico, Calif. According to his lawyer, Bob Boyce, Mr. Marin had a 20-year-old nonviolent robbery conviction in the United States that did not involve the use of a weapon. He served time and was deported back to El Salvador.Now Mr. Marin remains locked up in an immigration detention center while his child is in a shelter in Texas.Ruben Garcia, who runs a network of migrant shelters in El Paso, said that immigration authorities this month dropped off a distraught 18-year-old woman from Guatemala.The woman said she had given birth less than a week earlier and had been separated from her baby. Child welfare authorities had come to the hospital to take the child, who was a United States citizen; immigration agents took the mother back to a detention cell where she waited for several days. The baby’s first two weeks were spent away from the mother, who finally regained custody after interventions from multiple legal-aid groups, Mr. Garcia said.Since Mr. Trump ended the family separations under “zero tolerance” on June 20, about 2,700 children have been reunited with their parents. Still, thousands more children who were separated before the policy officially went into effect have not been accounted for, according to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. The investigators cited the lack of an efficient tracking system.The American Civil Liberties Union requested that the government locate the families, and on Friday, Judge Dana M. Sabraw ruled that they should be included in the pending litigation over protecting and reuniting separated families.“The hallmark of a civilized society is measured by how it treats its people and those within its borders,” the judge wrote in his opinion.Some families affected by the earlier zero-tolerance separations continue to face repercussions.A 9-year-old Guatemalan boy named Byron Xol has been shuffled among four shelters since he was dragged away from his father at the border nine months ago, while the policy was still in place.After his father was deported to Guatemala, the boy’s parents decided that the child should remain in the United States for safety reasons. With the help of a lawyer, they designated an American family in Buda, Tex., to care for him.But authorities have refused to allow Byron to join the family, citing an anti-trafficking policy that bars a child from being released to a nonrelative sponsor unless the sponsor has a verifiable relationship with the child going back at least a year.Detentions and deportation proceedings have also resulted in family separations far from the border.Christy Swatzell, an immigration lawyer in Memphis, said that two of her clients who crossed the border without authorization and were released to await the outcome of their cases were told by Immigration and Customs Enforcement to leave their children at home ahead of their monthly check-in with the agency. When they showed up at the I.C.E. office, they were detained and transferred to an immigration facility in Louisiana.One of the clients, Francisca Yanes, 33, is the mother of a 6-year-old girl who is physically disabled. “I was in tears, telling them about my daughter. But it didn’t matter,” said Ms. Yanes, whose child, Paola, remained in the care of family members for the entire 45 days she was in detention.The Guatemalan migrant was released on a $7,500 bond set by the court after her lawyer filed a motion on her behalf. “What we are seeing is that families are being effectively separated,” said Ms. Swatzell. “Just not at the border anymore.”Miriam Jordan reported from Oakland, Calif., and Caitlin Dickerson reported from New York.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanLOS ANGELES — Creating yet another roadblock to the Trump administration’s efforts to deport ineligible migrants, a federal appeals court ruled on Thursday that immigration authorities can no longer swiftly deport asylum seekers who fail an initial screening, opening the door for thousands of migrants a year to get another shot in the federal courts to win asylum in the United States.The ruling broadens constitutional protections for undocumented immigrants at the border and opens a new legal gateway for some of them to appeal for permission to stay in the country, even when an asylum officer and an immigration judge have made a determination that they do not have a credible fear of persecution in their homeland.“The historical and practical importance of this ruling cannot be overstated,” said Lee Gelernt, deputy director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s Immigrants’ Rights Project, who argued the appeal on behalf of a Sri Lankan migrant who had been turned away at California’s border with Mexico in 2017. He said the ruling “reaffirms the Constitution’s foundational principle that individuals deprived of their liberty must have access to a federal court.”After dropping precipitously over five decades, the number of migrants intercepted at the southern border — the key indicator of how many undocumented people are entering the United States — is soaring again, driven by an influx of families from Central America fleeing violence and poverty. Immigration authorities received more than 99,000 requests for asylum interviews during the 2018 fiscal year, including more than 54,000 submitted at the southwest border.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]President Trump has said that migrants are exploiting the asylum system by making baseless and fraudulent claims in order to remain in the United States, and his administration has taken a number of steps to make the process harder, including narrowing the grounds for winning asylum, limiting the number of asylum seekers who can be processed at the border each day and requiring some applicants to wait in Mexico while their cases make their way through the courts.In 2016, the most recent year for which data is available, an estimated 7,200 migrants were denied permission to apply for asylum after their initial interviews and were placed in expedited deportation proceedings. An analysis by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University found that in June 2018, only 15 percent of initial asylum reviews found that the asylum seeker had a credible fear of persecution, about half the proportion that had prevailed a year earlier.Thursday’s court decision will most likely send that trend in the other direction, legal analysts said.“This is a historic decision,” said Stephen Yale-Loehr, an immigration scholar at Cornell Law School. “But the government will surely appeal this to the Supreme Court.”The opinion, from the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, extends constitutional habeas corpus guarantees to those applying for asylum at the border and provides that they can seek a hearing in the federal courts before being summarily deported — though the court did not specify what standards the courts must use to evaluate such petitions.The ruling applies to asylum seekers in the nine western states included in the court’s jurisdiction and, because it conflicts with an earlier ruling rejecting such legal protections in the Third Circuit, the issue is likely to be resolved ultimately by the Supreme Court. In the meantime, legal analysts said, the court’s decision is likely to have sweeping implications for immigration deterrence efforts by enabling thousands to remain in the country while they seek the court review.Under current procedure, every migrant who arrives at the border and expresses a fear of persecution in his or her homeland is referred for an interview with an asylum officer. Those who succeed in convincing the officer that they have a credible fear are allowed to enter the country and proceed with their asylum cases in the immigration courts. Those who don’t can request a review by an immigration judge, but it is usually cursory and favorable decisions are rare. There is usually no access to a lawyer, and no opportunity to challenge the decision; deportation quickly ensues.In the case before the appeals court, Vijayakumar Thuraissigiam, a member of Sri Lanka’s Tamil ethnic minority, was arrested about 25 yards north of the border near San Ysidro, Calif., and told an asylum officer that he was fearful of returning to his homeland. The officer found no credible fear, and that finding was upheld by a supervisor and an immigration judge.Mr. Thuraissigiam was in deportation proceedings when he filed a habeas corpus petition in the federal court. He argued that the asylum officer had failed to elicit important background about his case, including that he had been detained and beaten by Sri Lankan army officers on two occasions, and at one point had been lowered into a well and nearly drowned. He also said there were communication problems between the translator and both the asylum officer and the immigration judge.As a result, his lawyers argued, he was deprived of “a meaningful right to apply for asylum.”A district court judge in Los Angeles rejected that argument, but the three-judge appeals court panel, sitting in San Francisco, held that even though an asylum seeker may lack the right to a full trial in immigration court, the Constitution requires a more complete review than what immigration law currently provides.At its “historical core,” said the 48-page opinion written by Judge A. Wallace Tashima, “the writ of habeas corpus has served as a means of reviewing the legality of executive detention, and it is in that context that its protections have been strongest.”An earlier version of this article listed five states in the 9th Circuit’s jurisdiction. There are nine states, plus additional territories.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zolan Kanno-Youngs and Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, on Wednesday tersely defended a now-defunct Trump administration practice of separating migrant children from their families at the border, sidestepping whether she supported it as a way to deter illegal immigration.In tense exchanges with House Democrats, Ms. Nielsen instead implored Congress to confront what she called a “humanitarian catastrophe” on the southern border by changing laws to crack down on illegal border crossings.She also said the Trump administration’s family separation practice was similar to those of previous presidents — even if only sporadically enforced in earlier cases.“It was a policy by this administration that only ended when there were pictures of little kids in cages that had been ripped away from their parents,” Representative Kathleen Rice, Democrat of New York, told Ms. Nielsen during a hearing of the House Homeland Security Committee.[Update: Kirstjen Nielsen out as Trump’s homeland security secretary.]Ms. Nielsen replied that Ms. Rice mischaracterized the administration’s enforcement.“That’s a policy,” Ms. Rice said. “You should admit it.”Ms. Nielsen noted that parents are generally separated from their children when they go to jail for illegal activities. But “that wasn’t the point” of the immigration policy, she said.“The point was to increase prosecutions for those breaking the law,” she added.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]The hearing was Ms. Nielsen’s first since Democrats took control of the House this year. She backed President Trump’s request to declare a national emergency at the border — which would give him access to funding to build a border wall — and cited new data from her department showing that the number of immigrants entering the United States illegally had doubled from a year ago.Immigration officials are on track to apprehend one million people crossing the southern border this year, Ms. Nielsen said.“This is not a manufactured crisis,” Ms. Nielsen said. “This is truly an emergency.”Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, later accused Democrats of refusing to acknowledge a crisis at the border. She also chastised Senate Republicans who did not support the president’s emergency declaration.“If you had done what you were elected to do on the front end, then the president would not have to fix the problem on his own through a national emergency,” Ms. Sanders said.Some Republicans at the House hearing said they supported building a wall along the border.Representative Daniel Crenshaw, Republican of Texas, acknowledged the concerns about family separations but said physical barriers were crucial to securing the long stretches of land between ports of entry.Mr. Crenshaw said he now doubted that “we all value the rule of law and value the ability to manage our border effectively” — a view he admitted was cynical.The Department of Homeland Security has opened three investigations into the Trump administration’s immigration policies, the agency’s acting inspector general, John V. Kelly, said in a separate hearing on Wednesday.Mr. Kelly said one investigation is looking into the department’s systems for tracking migrant children separated from their families; another is examining whether asylum-seeking families are being separated at the border.Department investigators were also reviewing whether parents facing deportation were given the option of bringing their children back home with them. In the hearing with Ms. Nielsen, Ms. Rice asked whether every relative facing deportation was, in fact, allowed to do so.“To the best of my knowledge, every parent was afforded that option,” Ms. Nielsen said.In the past, most undocumented immigrants entering the United States from Mexico were single men looking for work. But over the past year, the number of migrants traveling together as a family has soared — a point that Ms. Nielsen sought to underscore.Officials have said migrants — and the smugglers who exploit them — know they are unlikely to be detained if they travel with a child.Under a court order, the government is prohibited from keeping children in holding facilities at the border for more than 72 hours. Children must either be transferred to immigration detention facilities suitable for minors, or be released.The government has allowed thousands of detained migrants to go free each week because it lacks enough beds to hold them in family detention facilities. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a branch of Ms. Nielsen’s department, can accommodate only 3,326 parents and children in its three residential family centers.Democrats also criticized Ms. Nielsen for not adequately keeping track of migrant children who were separated from their parents last year.“You let kids be separated without tracking them. Do you know how outrageous that is, Madam Secretary?” said Representative Nanette Barragán, Democrat of California. “You have no feeling, no compassion, no empathy here.”Ms. Nielsen did not respond.The practice, part of a “zero tolerance” immigration policy that drew swift condemnation after it was publicly announced last spring, quickly became a symbol of the president’s crackdown on illegal immigration. At the time, Ms. Nielsen repeatedly denied that her department had a policy of routinely separating migrant children from their parents at the border, despite mounting evidence that thousands of families had been broken apart.During a news conference in June at the White House, she said she was offended by accusations that she would authorize separating children from their parents to send a message of deterrence. But the department continued to separate families until Mr. Trump, facing enormous public pressure, signed an executive order meant to end the policy.Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and the committee’s chairman, said he had requested documents on the treatment of asylum seekers at the border and family separations. After Wednesday’s hearing, Mr. Thompson told reporters that he expected that information within a week and was prepared to use subpoena powers as a “last resort.”“The secretary can choose whether to be complicit in this administration’s misinformation campaign,” Mr. Thompson said, “or she can correct the record.”For much of her tenure, Ms. Nielsen has been the subject of Mr. Trump’s ire over illegal immigration and border security.Mr. Trump berated her privately for not doing enough to stop illegal immigration and accelerate construction of a wall along the border with Mexico. The president grew repeatedly angry with Ms. Nielsen for telling him that his ideas to stop immigration would be illegal or improper.By year’s end, reports were rampant that Mr. Trump wanted to fire Ms. Nielsen, but her credibility with the president has since improved. During the government’s 35-day shutdown over funding for the president’s border wall, Ms. Nielsen was a fierce advocate for the wall.And on Wednesday morning, Ms. Nielsen made clear she would not stray far from the president’s anti-immigrant language.“We face a crisis — a real, serious and sustained crisis at our borders,” Ms. Nielsen said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie HabermanThe former White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, on Wednesday declined to answer questions about the existence of a memo he wrote saying that President Trump had ordered officials to give his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, a security clearance in May 2018.Mr. Kelly also broke with Mr. Trump on key aspects of his approach to immigration and the NATO alliance, and said that his top concern about decisions made by the president was whether they were objectively right for the country when divorced from political concerns.Mr. Kelly, who kept his voice level during a 90-minute question-and-answer session at Duke University, would not specifically address Mr. Kushner’s clearance being ordered by Mr. Trump, which The New York Times reported last week.“I couldn’t — and I’m not dodging — I couldn’t comment on that for a couple of reasons,” Mr. Kelly said, citing clearances being among the things that he could not discuss, and that conversations with the president “at that level would certainly” be kept confidential under executive privilege.Asked specifically about whether he had ever created memos for the record, Mr. Kelly said, “I’d prefer not to talk about that.”Mr. Trump ordered the chief of staff to get Mr. Kushner a clearance after it stalled for most of the first half of the president’s term over concerns from the F.B.I. and career security officials about Mr. Kushner’s personal foreign contacts, as well as those related to his family’s real-estate business.Mr. Trump has the legal authority to overrule recommendations from security clearance officials. But his action added to ongoing questions about how people obtained them, and it contradicted a statement at the time from Mr. Kushner’s lawyer that his clearance went through a normal process. And the president himself asserted to The Times in an Oval Office interview in January that he had not directed Mr. Kelly or anyone else to grant a clearance.In his conversation at Duke with Professor Peter Feaver, Mr. Kelly said that his 18 months as the chief of staff were the “least” favorite job he had held, but the most important. He acknowledged that his colleagues in the Marine Corps, where he served as a four-star general, might not like hearing that.However, Mr. Kelly said, during that time, Mr. Trump “went from a guy who didn’t know how the system works” to one “who understands how it works.”Mr. Kelly, who left at the end of December, also made clear he did not consider himself working for Mr. Trump, but doing his civic duty to serve. If Hillary Clinton had won, he said, he probably would have worked for her as well.Mr. Kelly defended the utility of the NATO alliance, which Mr. Trump has often criticized as an unfair financial drain on the United States.On a wall at the border with Mexico, Mr. Kelly said that there were specific areas where it could be effective but constructing one “from sea to shining sea” was a “waste of money.”The issuance of the zero-tolerance policy for border crossings that resulted in family separations “came as a surprise” to him and to other officials, Mr. Kelly said, defending his replacement as secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Kirstjen Nielsen, from criticism. He appeared to place most of the blame on the former attorney general, Jeff Sessions, who announced the policy.Of people crossing the border who are apprehended, Mr. Kelly contradicted the president. “They’re overwhelmingly not criminals — they’re people coming up here for economic” purposes. Mr. Trump has regularly portrayed immigrants crossing at the southern border as dangerous lawbreakers.He also joked wryly about the advice he gave his successor, Mick Mulvaney: “Run for it,” Mr. Kelly said, to laughter. On a serious note, he said, he told him the chief of staff’s job was to tell the president “what he needs to hear.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byheads upThe fence along the Mexican border was once such a deterrent to visitors that it helped drive Rancho de la Osa out of business. Now the barrier is an attraction for the dude ranch. By Elaine GlusacThe 90-minute drive from Tucson to Rancho de la Osa, a recently reopened dude ranch on the border with Mexico, is a lonely one. Turning onto Highway 286, your car may be the only southbound vehicle for 44 miles while the occasional U.S. Border Patrol van trolls north. The road runs directly to the border fence, here made up of eerie metal posts spaced less than a foot apart, at the town of Sasabe. Minutes before reaching it, a right turn onto a dirt road delivers you to the historic adobe ranch, painted a warm terra cotta, with a porch lined with turquoise Adirondack chairs.“You got the right place, and we got the right horse,” said a cowboy in the driveway, when I pulled in last winter, fully living up to wrangler stereotype with a handlebar mustache and weathered 10-gallon hat.Once, the border fence was such a strong deterrent to visitors that it helped drive the 1920s dude ranch out of business. But, if anything, President Trump’s campaign for a border wall has helped revive interest in a region that already has a barrier at the border.“Like Trump or hate Trump, now the border is an attraction,” said Russell True, who with partners, bought Rancho de la Osa at auction complete with its vintage western furnishings and period art in late 2016. They don’t publicize the ranch’s proximity to the border fence and had hoped the border would be a neutral feature of the ranch. Instead, Mr. True said it has piqued the interest of guests. “The first thing they want to do is see the wall,” he said. “We could not have planned for the political shift and that it would become interesting.”Originally opened in the 1920s, Rancho de la Osa drew many celebrated guests, including Joan Crawford, Cesar Romero and John Wayne, for whom three of the 18 bedrooms are named (double room rates from $235 a person, all inclusive). The cowboy actor of the silent film era, Tom Mix, made one of his many films here. Authors checked in too, including the western novelist Zane Grey and Margaret Mitchell. Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lyndon B. Johnson led the political A-list along with William Clayton, who drafted the Marshall Plan to aid European countries after World War II in a two-bedroom house on the property.More current events also helped drive the ranch out of business, according to Mr. True, who also co-owns White Stallion Ranch near Tucson. In 2010, Jan Brewer then the governor of Arizona, decried beheadings in the desert she said were linked to illegal immigration and drug trafficking, allegations that were never corroborated and that she later called an error on her part. “We just had an absolute, possibly even slightly irrational need to save it,” Mr. True told me as we sat in the main lodge, where the adobe walls are washed in orange, red and yellow hues and an antique leather sofa is embossed with an image of a saddle. “Somebody else would have bought it, but nobody else was going to run it as a dude ranch.”As a dude ranch, the 590-acre Rancho de la Osa, restored and reopened in 2017, offers more than vintage charm. Beyond the central compound, which includes an outdoor swimming pool and a bar in a building dating back to 1720, lies some of the lushest areas of the Sonoran Desert, at about a 3,500-foot elevation, and the distinctive Baboquivari Peak, which is considered sacred to the indigenous Tohono O’odham people.Horseback riding is the main activity here but the new owners have expanded activities to include fat-tire electric mountain biking, off-road vehicle tours, clay-pigeon shooting and bird-watching trips to the neighboring Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge, a 117,500-acre preserve with grasslands that resemble the savannas of Africa.10 milesTucsonTohono O’odhamnation reservation86286ArizonaBaboquivari Peak19Rancho dela Osa Buenos Aires NationalWildlife RefugeSasabeNogalesMexicoBy The New York TimesIn addition to exploring the desert, morning and afternoon rides introduce guests to the ranch’s veteran wranglers Ross and Lynne Knox. The couple’s stories, including his close brushes with death running pack-mule trains in the Grand Canyon, conjured a western past that doesn’t seem so distant here in some of the more desolate parts of the southern border.“If you’re not living on the edge,” he said with a chuckle about his daring cowboy lifestyle, “then you’re taking up too much space.”Of course, the degree to which the desert is deserted is up for debate, and on my first ride I spotted the well-patrolled fence -— mostly out of sight from the ranch dwellings — that undulates east with the hills as far as the eye can see.It abruptly stops at the nearby territory of the Tohono O’odham people who have prevented the fence, erected in 2007, from crossing tribal land. When the Knoxes drove me and four fellow guests in an off-road cart to see it, we took turns walking around to the Mexican side of the border and posing for photos. A few foot paths snaked into the hills on the American side staked with spiky ocotillo cactus.Still, it was easy to forget about politics in a place where a juvenile great horned owl, flying low at dusk, roosted in a tree just 10 feet from my patio seat, and where cozy rooms with original fireplaces came stocked with mesquite wood. Mr. Knox, a celebrated cowboy poet, recited some of his work after dinner, concluding “when the memories come calling, you still can’t help but pray/Lord, please make me a cowboy again for a day.”Follow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Caitlin DickersonThe number of migrant families crossing the southwest border has once again broken records, with unauthorized entries nearly double what they were a year ago, suggesting that the Trump administration’s aggressive policies have not discouraged new migration to the United States.More than 76,000 migrants crossed the border without authorization in February, an 11-year high and a strong sign that stepped-up prosecutions, new controls on asylum and harsher detention policies have not reversed what remains a powerful lure for thousands of families fleeing violence and poverty.“The system is well beyond capacity, and remains at the breaking point,” Kevin K. McAleenan, commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, told reporters in announcing the new data on Tuesday.The nation’s top border enforcement officer painted a picture of processing centers filled to capacity, border agents struggling to meet medical needs and thousands of exhausted members of migrant families crammed into a detention system that was not built to house them — all while newcomers continue to arrive, sometimes by the busload, at the rate of 2,200 a day.“This is clearly both a border security and a humanitarian crisis,” Mr. McAleenan said.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]President Trump has used the escalating numbers to justify his plan to build an expanded wall along the 1,900-mile border with Mexico. But a wall would do little to slow migration, most immigration analysts say. While the exact numbers are not known, many of those apprehended along the southern border, including the thousands who present themselves at legal ports of entry, surrender voluntarily to Border Patrol agents and eventually submit legal asylum claims.Obama34,647BushAverage per month: 81,588Trump32,012150,000100,00050,0002001200320052007200920112013201520172019Trump32,012Obama34,647Bush81,588 Average per month 150,000100,00050,00020012005200920132017People travelingwith family: 36,17430,000Others: 23,45120,00010,000Unaccompaniedchildren: 6,825Jan. 2016JulyJan. 2017JulyJan. 2018JulyJan. 2019People travelingwith family30,00020,000Others10,000Unaccompaniedchildren2016201720182019Source: U.S. Customs and Border ProtectionBy The New York TimesThe main problem is not one of uncontrolled masses scaling the fences, but a humanitarian challenge created as thousands of migrant families surge into remote areas where the administration has so far failed to devote sufficient resources to care for them, as is required under the law.The latest numbers stung an administration that has over the past two years introduced a rash of aggressive policies intended to deter migrants from journeying to the United States, including separating families, limiting entries at official ports and requiring some asylum seekers to wait in Mexico through the duration of their immigration cases.More than 50,000 adults are currently in Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody, the highest number ever.Despite targeted successes in certain areas — about 2,000 migrants who traveled in a caravan from Central America last year appeared to have given up their cause as of last month after being discouraged by long delays in Tijuana — migrants seem only to have adjusted their routes rather than turn back. Indeed, they are traveling in even larger numbers than before.[Read more about why more migrants are crossing the border.]Arrests along the southern border have increased 97 percent since last year, the Border Patrol said, with a 434 percent increase in the El Paso sector, which covers the state of New Mexico and the two westernmost counties of Texas. Families, mainly from Central America, continue to arrive in ever-larger groups in remote parts of the southwest.At least 70 such groups of 100 or more people have turned themselves in at Border Patrol stations that typically are staffed by only a handful of agents, often hours away from civilization. By comparison, only 13 such groups arrived in the last fiscal year, and two in the year before.Understanding what is happening on the border is difficult because, while the numbers are currently higher than they have been in several years, they are nowhere near the historic levels of migration seen across the southwest border. Arrests for illegally crossing the border reached up to 1.64 million in 2000, under President Clinton. In the 2018 fiscal year, they reached 396,579. For the first five months of the current fiscal year, 268,044 have been apprehended.The difference is that the nature of immigration has changed, and the demographics of those arriving now are proving more taxing for border officials to accommodate. Most of those entering the country in earlier years were single men, most of them from Mexico, coming to look for work. If they were arrested, they could quickly be deported.Now, the majority of border crossers are not single men but families — fathers from Honduras with adolescent boys they are pulling away from gang violence, mothers with toddlers from Guatemala whose farms have been lost to drought. While they may not have a good case to remain in the United States permanently, it is not so easy to speedily deport them if they arrive with children and claim protection under the asylum laws.Families with children can be held in detention for no longer than 20 days, under a much-debated court ruling, and since there are a limited number of detention centers certified to hold families, the practical effect is that most families are released into the country to await their hearings in immigration court. The courts are so backlogged that it could take months or years for cases to be decided. Some people never show up for court at all.Finally, detaining families even for the first few days after their arrival in the United States, while they are undergoing initial processing, is also a challenging job.Often arriving exhausted, dehydrated, and some of them requiring urgent medical care, the families need food, diapers, infant formula and space to play. They can often spend days inside cramped concrete cells that were built to house the previous generation of border crossers — young, single men who would likely be there only a few hours.As part of the announcements on Tuesday, Mr. McAleenan also said the agency is making sweeping changes to procedures for guaranteeing adequate medical care for migrants — an overhaul brought on by the deaths of two migrant children in the agency’s custody in December. The measures, which include comprehensive health screenings for all migrant children and a new processing center in El Paso that would help provide better shelter and medical care for migrant families, are an attempt to fix years of health care inadequacies that have left many at risk.The agency will also expand medical contracts to place health care practitioners — largely registered nurses and nurse practitioners — in “high-risk” and high-traffic locations along the border. It will also dedicate more money for translation services to meet increasing demand from Central Americans, many of whom speak indigenous languages and dialects and may not be able to communicate their needs in English or Spanish.[Read: Border Patrol Facilities Put Detainees With Medical Conditions at Risk]“These solutions are temporary and this situation is not sustainable,” Mr. McAleenan said.Mr. McAleenan said the authorities believe that the large numbers of families are coming because smugglers have effectively communicated across Central America that adults who travel with children will be allowed to enter and stay in the United States.Brian Hastings, the agency’s chief of law enforcement operations, said that since April 2018, border agents had detected nearly 2,400 “false families,” including cases in which migrants had falsely claimed to be related when they were not, or untruthfully claimed to be younger than 18.The throngs of new families are also affecting communities on the American side of the border. In El Paso, a volunteer network that temporarily houses the migrants after they are released from custody has had to expand to 20 facilities, compared with only three during the same period last year. Migrants are now being housed in churches, a converted nursing home and about 125 hotel rooms that are being paid for with donations.“We had never seen these kinds of numbers,” said Ruben Garcia, the director of the organization, called Annunciation House. He said that during one week in February, immigration authorities had released more than 3,600 migrants to his organization, the highest number in any single week since the group’s founding in 1978.For the most part, Mr. Garcia said that his staff and volunteer workers had been able to keep up with the surge, often making frantic calls to churches to request access to more space for housing families on short notice. But sometimes their best efforts were upended, he said, including on one day last week, when the authorities dropped off 150 more migrants than planned.“We just didn’t have the space,” Mr. Garcia said.Reporting was contributed by Miriam Jordan in Los Angeles, Sheri Fink in New York and Zolan Kanno-Youngs from Washington.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTrump’s cruel separation of immigrant families continued after he declared he was ending the practice.By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistPresident Trump claimed last June to have ended the practice of separating immigrant families at the southern border. “We are going to keep the families together,” he declared from the Oval Office.Mr. President, meet Clemente and his daughter Wendy, both fleeing gang violence in Guatemala. Your administration separated them six months ago and kept them apart.These family separations, continuing but at a lower level than before, are an element of the real “emergency” at the border — the one also involving physical and sexual abuse of immigrant children in U.S. custody and systematic deception from Washington.The paradox is that Trump’s cruel policy to deter desperate immigrants appears counterproductive; apparently the furor it provoked drew attention to the possibility of migration. The result is a surge of Central American families traveling to the United States, with the number crossing the border far higher than a year earlier.[Follow Nicholas Kristof as he travels around the United States and the world, shedding light on crises and hailing unsung heroes. For a behind-the-scenes look at Nick’s gritty journalism, sign up for his newsletter.]Clemente, 34, is from a small Guatemalan village. He doesn’t want to use his last name because of all he has been through at the hands of the U.S. government. There is no way to verify parts of his story, but individuals who work with immigrants say it rings true.A gang in Guatemala murdered his cousin, and last year gangsters stabbed Clemente’s father and sent warnings to Clemente: “It’s now your turn.”Terrified, Clemente fled with his eldest daughter, Wendy, then 15, leaving his wife and five other, younger children, whom he did not believe the gang would target. He feared that the gang would abduct Wendy, an excellent student who loves books, and he could not bear that thought.They crossed Mexico without serious incident, then waded across the Rio Grande and turned themselves in to Border Patrol officers, requesting asylum. That was Aug. 20, two months after Trump said he had ended the family separation policy. But officials promptly separated Clemente and Wendy.Clemente was put in a “hielera,” or ice box, notorious detention rooms predating Trump that are kept cold. Clemente, wet from the river crossing, was soon freezing as well as hungry and weak because he had given his food to Wendy. “As a dad, the last thing you want is for your daughter to suffer,” he explained simply. “So I gave everything to her.”In this frail state, he caught pneumonia and passed out. Many hours went by before he was taken to a hospital, unconscious and gravely ill. Inadequate health care in detention centers is common, and two migrant children died in December in Border Patrol custody.“I woke up in the hospital, and I didn’t know where I was,” Clemente told me. “It was a nightmare. My first question was, ‘Where’s my daughter?’” After he was released from the hospital and later from detention, he found himself on the streets of Brownsville, Tex.“He was distraught and he was crying,” recalled Sergio Cordova, a volunteer in Brownsville who does heroic work with immigrants, funded by donations, and discovered Clemente at the bus station. “I gave him a hug and he started saying he can’t find his daughter, he doesn’t know where his daughter is.”Eventually, Clemente discovered that she was in a shelter. She was allowed to telephone him once a week, but not return to his care; his voice broke as he described her as “an angel from God.”Immigration is a complicated challenge, but ripping families apart isn’t the solution. Perhaps the best approach is to help improve security in Central America so that people like Clemente need not flee. Some anti-gang initiatives there have been very successful in reducing murder rates that drive migration.“If it were peaceful, I’d like to be back there where I grew up,” said Clemente, who received help from Immigrant Families Together in his quest to reunite with his daughter. “I’d love to be in the land where I was born.”The Texas Civil Rights Project found that at least 272 adults were separated from a child family member in the six months after Trump supposedly ended family separation. The youngest to be separated was an 8-month-old girl taken from her mother.Officials are less likely now to separate parents from children, but they continue to separate grandparents from grandchildren, siblings from siblings. The day I spoke with Cordova, the volunteer, he was helping two brothers from Honduras who had no other family left: Junior, 21, had raised Andy, 7.When gang members brutally beat up Junior for refusing to sell drugs for them, he fled with Andy to the United States — and officials separated them on arrival six months ago. So little Andy is now in a shelter, apart from the only person who has loved and protected him.“I see this all the time,” Cordova told me. “They cry with me, I cry with them.”Finally, there was a break in Clemente’s case. On Wednesday night, the authorities released Wendy to him. After six months apart, they had a teary reunion.“I thought I might never get her back again,” Clemente said. “I am very thankful.”So, yes, President Trump, you’re right that there’s an emergency at the border. It’s a humanitarian crisis of family separation that you helped create.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.  @NickKristof • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesWelcome to Crossing the Border, a limited-run weekly newsletter from The New York Times. Like what you see? Send this to a friend. If someone forwarded it to you, sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.Floating above the cactus-pear cocktails and gourmet tacos, a green mosaic rises above the plaza just on the Mexico side of the Tijuana border: ESTACION FEDERAL. There are Edison-bulb patio lights and metal fire pits. Textures of reclaimed wood and concrete and succulents. In the back, a food truck doubles as a southwestern mural, a blur of orange and yellow and purple.This Instagram-ready commons in chaotic Tijuana is the brainchild of Miguel Marshall, a cross-border entrepreneur whose vision of a binational border between Mexico and the United States has grown even more resolute in the era of President Trump. He is the chief executive of Centro Ventures, a Tijuana-based real estate development company that is creating work-and-living spaces like this, with carefully curated food, coffee, co-working units and even Airbnb lofts.Mr. Marshall’s entrepreneurial work has earned him cachet among business leaders in Mexico and the United States. He has been designated as one of Tijuana’s “global shapers” by the World Economic Forum, which holds the annual gathering of world economic leaders in Davos, Switzerland.Estacion Federal is just a five-minute walk from Mexico’s El Chaparral border crossing, “a little south of south San Diego, a little north of north Tijuana,” as the spot is promoted online. Mr. Marshall sees it as a prototype for rejuvenating the Mexican border city — part artistic community, part commuter waypoint and part gastro-utopia.His vision is to bring Americans and Mexicans together for good food, drinks and conversation.This project is partly grounded in his biography. Mr. Marshall was born in San Diego but grew up in Tijuana. He was named after his father, Michael Marshall, but his parents gave him the Spanish-language version of the name so he would not be bullied in Mexican schools.“I’m a border baby,” he said with a laugh.For several years, the border across the Southwest has been in the midst of an economic boom, with new businesses and stores springing up to serve middle-class Mexican customers who have permission to cross into the United States on day trips. The problem Mr. Marshall sees is that much of the investment along the border, at least in California, has happened on the American side.In San Ysidro — San Diego’s border district, on the American side — visitors can find hundreds of businesses, from big outlet malls to small family shops.On the Mexican side, by contrast, there are miles of run-down homes and parking garages. The neighborhood does little to show visitors Tijuana’s vibrant culture, Mr. Marshall said, or to entice Americans to venture south.“First impressions matter,” said Mr. Marshall, who slips repeatedly between Spanish and English when he talks. “The cross-border lifestyle, we’re trying to brand that as a way of living.”The small Estacion Federal plaza offers vegetarian tacos, pizza, carefully sourced coffee and a cocktail bar. It is all highly curated.On a recent Friday evening at the Cereus Bar, patrons from both sides of the border wore skinny jeans and leather jackets. The aesthetic was familiar — classic American hipsterdom by way of a CB2 catalog — augmented by the sounds and smells and tastes of gourmet Mexico. One of the signature cocktails is a prickly-pear drink made from the juice of cactus fruit — known as “tuna” in Spanish — sourced at Mercado Hidalgo, the famed farmers’ market in Tijuana. It is the most expensive item on the menu: 130 pesos, or a little less than $7.Mr. Marshall said he hoped to draw an American clientele to his plaza, but he also wants Cereus to be a neighborhood bar. He envisions young people leaving work in San Diego and stopping at the pizza and taco shops before a night out in Tijuana’s nightclub district.“The best of both worlds,” he said.—JOSE A. DEL REAL in San Ysidro, Calif., and Tijuana, MexicoJose is one of a team of Times journalists currently deployed along the border. Each week they will be sharing a slice of their reporting about the border and the people who spend time on both sides of it.Do you have questions about life on the border? Or feedback about this newsletter? Email us at: crossingtheborder@nytimes.com.Some 76,000 migrants crossed the border without authorization in February, according to data released by the United States government on Tuesday.It was the fourth time in five months that the number of migrant families crossing the southwest border has broken records, border enforcement authorities said. The number was more than double the same period last year. Read the full story here, from Caitlin Dickerson, a Times immigration reporter.Miriam Jordan, a Times immigration correspondent, dived into those numbers and explained why, despite President Trump’s efforts to halt the arrival of undocumented migrants, they have continued to rise. The short version? More people from impoverished areas of Central America, and more families instead of single men, are choosing to make the journey. Read that story here. The border has been in the headlines in Washington this week. Here’s how to catch up, and go deeper.• On Wednesday, House Democrats grilled Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, over a host of border issues, including the deaths of migrant children in federal custody and last year’s policy of separating families at the border. She was defiant in the face of criticism of the administration, and defended President Trump’s claim that the situation at the border was a national emergency. Read the story here, and go here for clips of Ms. Nielsen’s testimony.• Ms. Nielsen was questioned about the care migrants receive in custody. A Times investigation found shortfalls in health care provided to migrants, who sometimes arrive with serious illness and injury. Read the story here.• Senate leaders this week announced that, with several Republicans joining the Democrats, they had enough votes to block Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the border. It would be a stern rebuke to the president over his plan to fund a wall. Read more about the Republicans who oppose the declaration — and why they do — here. • Meanwhile, Times reporters found that the Trump administration has a surprising new ally in Mexico: the Mexican government. The country’s leaders have promised to defend migrants, but Mexico’s new president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, is trying to prevent conflict with Mr. Trump, and officials are carrying out the Trump administration’s immigration agenda across wide stretches of the border. Read the story here.Read earlier installments of Crossing the Border here. Sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.AdvertisementCreditCreditDaniel Brenner for The New York TimesSupported byBy Julie TurkewitzPhotographs by Daniel BrennerDENVER — Just hours stood between Jorge Zaldivar and his meeting with immigration officials, and so once again his family gathered to say goodbye.Nearly a million people in the United States have received deportation orders but have managed to stay in the country anyway, often hanging on through postponements granted to them at check-ins with immigration officials. For years, those appointments were largely routine, and most people went in expecting to receive another temporary reprieve.That changed when the Trump administration said it would expand deportation priorities to include anyone who had crossed the border illegally. And in the last two years, in households across the country, the dinner before a check-in has turned into a grim ritual, with families never sure whether or not this meal is the last they share together.[Read about a mother and daughter who were seeking asylum — they both have H.I.V. but only one was allowed entry.]The Zaldivar children — Francysco, 8, Aanahny, 10, Dyego, 14, Yolanda, 20, and Josefyna, 23 — all United States citizens, have lived in a cycle of check-ins and court dates for most of their lives. Their father crossed into the country illegally in 1997 and has been trying to gain legal residency through his wife, Christina, also a citizen, for more than a decade.That has failed, and the Zaldivars said goodbye to their father on June 7, 2017, on July 5, 2017, and on Jan. 10, 2018, and then four more times last year. In late February, The New York Times followed them on the night before Mr. Zaldivar’s latest immigration appointment.Ms. Zaldivar, 39, who is of Navajo and Southern Ute descent, never expected to be in this position. She married her husband in 2005, when she was a single mother of three. At the time, it did not occur to her to think much about his immigration status.“You don’t fall in love and say: ‘Hi, nice to meet you, do you have papers?’” she said. “I didn’t care if he had papers or not. He treated me right after an abusive marriage.”Mostly, she said, she experiences guilt and anger over what all this has done to her children. Her oldest daughter skipped college to help pay her father’s legal fees. Her middle son has started lashing out at teachers, unable to explain to them what is happening at home.At dinner, the house filled with relatives.When everyone had a plate of chicken and rice, Ms. Zaldivar called for silence.She had received an email earlier that day from a congressional aide helping with their case. The aide had heard from immigration officials.“Dad’s stay was denied,” Ms. Zaldivar said, looking at her children. “Tomorrow when he goes in to check in, they’re not going to let him come out.”In the morning, at the breakfast table, Ms. Zaldivar hauled out a blue tote she had prepared for her husband, with a list of medications and hotel-size toiletries, meant to help him if or when he arrived in Mexico.Mr. Zaldivar took out his wallet and removed his driver’s license, his worker’s permit and a piece of paper bearing his social security number.He handed them to his wife for safekeeping, and slipped $100 into the billfold.Then he went into his youngest daughter’s room, where he began to clean, packing her toys into the dollhouse, organizing the stacks of Girl Scout cookies.“I’m stressed,” he said. “I want to this to be over.”“Let’s go,” Ms. Zaldivar called.Mr. Zaldivar took the wheel of the family truck, and everyone climbed inside.Across town, on the yellowed grass outside the federal immigration building, a few activists had arrived to show their support.Mr. Zaldivar’s wife took his arm.“Ready?” he said quietly.Together they crossed the road, Ms. Zaldivar gripping the blue tote, and then disappeared.His children watched.Then, not 20 minutes in, a shout went up from one of the activists.The Zaldivars, both of them, were walking out the building’s glass doors.Ms. Zaldivar approached her children, her voice unsteady. Her husband had been granted one more monthlong postponement, she said, but this time “he has to come back with a ticket — a bus ticket, a plane ticket, something showing he is going to exit in 30 days.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del Real and Zolan Kanno-YoungsLOS ANGELES — In an attempt to determine who was behind the caravans that were bringing large numbers of migrants from Central America to the southwest border, the Trump administration created a list of activists and journalists whom they subjected to additional scrutiny when they entered the United States last year.Federal immigration authorities faced criticism on Thursday after an internal government document, obtained by NBC 7 San Diego, suggested that immigration activists and journalists were specifically singled out for extra screening at border entry points by the United States and Mexican governments.Many of those on the list had traveled with the migrant caravans as they arrived in Mexican border cities from Central America to seek asylum. Others on the list, according to lawyers representing them, had provided legal assistance or aid to migrants, but had not traveled with the caravans at all.Customs and Border Protection officials said they had identified people because they may have had information in connection to assaults against Border Patrol agents that took place last November and in January, but said that gathering this type of information was standard.“C.B.P. does not target journalists for inspection based on their occupation or their reporting,” Andrew Meehan, the agency’s assistant commissioner of public affairs, said in a statement, adding that C.B.P. “has policies in place that prohibit discrimination against arriving travelers and has specific provisions regarding encounters with journalists.”Nonetheless, the inspector general for the Homeland Security Department opened an inquiry last month, with C.B.P., “to ensure that all appropriate policies and practices were followed.”In Washington, lawmakers on the House Homeland Security Committee sent a letter on Thursday to Customs and Border Protection criticizing the list and said it raised serious legal and constitutional questions.Esha Bhandari, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, said that targeting reporters or advocates for secondary screening and extended detention on the basis of their work was a violation of their rights. Ms. Bhandari said the A.C.L.U. was monitoring developments in the cases and exploring all legal options.“The implications of this are really disturbing,” she said. “It is unconstitutional for the government to target people for punishment or retaliation solely based on their first amendment protected activity.”[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]Go Nakamura, a freelance photographer whose work has appeared in The New York Times and who was on the list, said he had suspected for several months that his name had been flagged to immigration officials.In an interview Thursday, he recalled being stopped by Mexican authorities in late December while he was near the border fence in Tijuana to take photographs of migrants. The officers asked to see Mr. Nakamura’s passport, something he had not experienced during other lengthy assignments on the border, he said. He thought it was strange when the officers took photos of his passport on cellphones.Mr. Nakamura, an American citizen, tried to re-enter the United States several days later, and initially faced routine questions. He was asked about his background, where he lived, where he went to school. He was also asked about when he began working as a photojournalist.But the questioning began to alarm Mr. Nakamura when an officer pulled out a document with pictures of about 10 to 14 faces and asked him to identify them.“They asked me if I recognized any of the faces,” Mr. Nakamura said. “I didn’t, so I said no. The officer who showed me the papers, she was asking me if I was connected with the organizers of the caravan. She was like, have you met the organizers or do I know the organizers?”“I felt like they thought I was a spy or something,” Mr. Nakamura said.Kitra Cahana, a freelance photographer on the list whose work has also appeared in The Times, said she was barred from entering Mexico on Jan. 17 while she was en route to photograph another caravan of migrants traveling through the country. As she was about to board a flight from Montreal to Detroit, she scanned her passport at a pre-clearance machine, which printed out a picture with an “X over my face.” She was taken into secondary questioning in Montreal, but was ultimately allowed to board her flight.In Mexico City, she was again detained. That time she was held for about 13 hours, she said, before being officially denied entry to Mexico.Mexican authorities confiscated her American passport and cellphone during that period. She was escorted to a flight back to Detroit. Later that month, on Jan. 26, she said she tried to cross into Mexico from Guatemala, and was denied entry.Ms. Bhandari said there were specific rules outlined by the Justice Department that the government must follow when questioning journalists, which, she said, Customs and Border Protection may have violated.“The existence of these dossiers can have a real chilling effect,” Ms. Bhandari said. “It can suggest to other journalists that if they dare to report on activities that are embarrassing to the United States government, you too can be singled out for this harsh treatment.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article suggested incorrectly that all of the people on the government list had traveled with migrant caravans. Some people traveled with caravans; others provided aid or legal support for the migrants, but did not travel with them.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam Jordan and Caitlin DickersonOAKLAND, Calif. — Nearly nine months after the Trump administration officially rescinded its policy of separating migrant families who have illegally crossed the border, more than 200 migrant children have been taken from parents and other relatives and placed in institutional care, with some spending months in shelters and foster homes thousands of miles away from their parents.The latest data reported to the federal judge monitoring one of the most controversial of President Trump’s immigration policies shows that 245 children have been removed from their families since the court ordered the government to halt routine separations under last spring’s “zero tolerance” border enforcement policy. Some of the new separations are being undertaken with no clear documentation to help track the children’s whereabouts.Images of crying mothers and children at the border last year prompted an intense backlash across party lines, with all four living former first ladies and Melania Trump expressing horror at the policy. But despite President Trump’s June 20 executive order rescinding it, the practice was never completely suspended.Under the original policy, most children were removed because parents who illegally crossed the border were subject to criminal prosecution. The recent separations have occurred largely because parents have been flagged for fraud, a communicable disease or past criminal history — in some cases relatively minor violations, years in the past, that ordinarily would not lead to the loss of parental custody.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The new separations are taking place amid an unprecedented influx of migrant families from across the southern border that has highlighted the failure of the Trump administration’s hard-line policies to deter them. The Border Patrol detained 76,103 migrants in February, an 11-year high for that month. Among those intercepted were about 40,000 members of families, two-thirds more than in January.In Congress last week, Democrats grilled Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, over the separation policy, citing research that has found that separations from parents can inflict long-term psychological harm on children.Family separations also sometimes occurred under the Obama administration, but only rarely and in extreme cases in which a child’s safety appeared to be at risk.Customs and Border Protection officials say the separations are legal under the parameters set by the court and are intended to protect children, who they say may be threatened by human trafficking or by adults pretending to be a parent to capitalize on the advantage that gives them under American immigration laws.“C.B.P. does not declare that a parent poses danger to a child arbitrarily or without merit,” the agency said in a statement. It said agents “will maintain family unity to the greatest extent operationally feasible,” separating children only in the presence of “a legal requirement” set out in written policy or “an articulable safety or security concern that requires separation.”But opposition to the new separations has been growing from both outside and inside the federal government. At the Health and Human Services Department’s Office of Refugee Resettlement, which oversees the care of separated children until they can be reunited with their families, some officials have tried to resist receiving children referred to the agency by the Border Patrol.According to an official who was not authorized to discuss government business and spoke on the condition of anonymity, staff members have in some cases raised questions with Border Patrol agents about separations with what appear to be little or no justification. In some of those cases, border agents have refused to provide additional information, the official said, or if additional documents were provided, they were sometimes redacted to the point of illegibility.The official, along with another staff member at the Department of Homeland Security, the Border Patrol’s parent agency, said that some separations were occurring with no formal notification to the refugee resettlement office. Both officials said they had been made aware of concerns about an apparent inconsistency in standards applied by border agents when determining whether a family should be separated.The failure to keep accurate records suggests that more children could have been separated than the 245 accounted for by Feb. 20 in official records.The New York Times reviewed several cases of children who have been separated since the policy was officially ended, and learned of many others through the lawyers who handled them. Some of the new separations, the review showed, occurred in families with a parent who had a drunken-driving conviction in the past, or a 20-year-old nonviolent robbery conviction. In one case, a parent had been convicted of possession of a small amount of marijuana.Donna Abbott, vice president for refugee and immigrant services at Bethany Christian Services, a contractor that accommodates migrant children in temporary foster homes until they can be reunited with family members, said most cases of family separations do not list detailed reasons, making it difficult to evaluate whether they were appropriate.For example, some files state only that the parent was suspected of having gang affiliations or a criminal history, without additional information. “Is it trespassing or is it murder?” Ms. Abbott said.In December, a mother traveling from El Salvador with her three children was arrested and put on a bus to an immigration detention facility in Arizona while her children, ages 5, 8 and 15, were sent to foster care in New York.The woman, Deisy Ramirez, 38, said it was nearly six weeks before she talked to her children.They were “devastated,” said Ms. Ramirez’s sister, Silvia Ramirez, who was trying to persuade the government to allow her to take the children to live with her in Seattle while her sister was in custody. “They couldn’t understand why they were separated,” she said.On March 1, Ms. Ramirez’s eldest daughter was transferred to a hospital after threatening to take her own life, Silvia Ramirez said, and she remained there even after her mother’s release from detention last week.“I never imagined this could happen,” Deisy Ramirez said on Friday, her voice breaking. “All I want is to hold my children and to be with them.”Her lawyer, Ricardo de Anda, said he had received no response to his formal request for a reason for the separation. He suspects it may be connected to the fact that Ms. Ramirez had been deported from the United States more than a decade ago. He sent government lawyers a series of emails, ultimately securing her release.On Saturday, the day after her release from the Arizona detention facility, Ms. Ramirez was preparing to fly to New York to reunite with her children.Border agents removed 3-year-old Ashley Ramos from her father after they were detained last month in Arizona. He was swiftly deported to Guatemala and the girl was sent to a shelter.The child’s mother, Silvia Maribel Ramos, who had been separated from the pair during their journey from Guatemala when Mexican police pulled her and other migrants off their bus for questioning, arrived in Arizona a few days later, only to learn from authorities that her child was gone.“They told me they had no idea where she was, that I would find out after being released,” said Ms. Ramos, who is staying with relatives in Oakland, Calif.The child was located nearly two weeks later, she said, after her husband contacted Guatemalan authorities back home. Now Ms. Ramos is struggling with the paperwork required to recover Ashley. “My daughter can’t understand. She just weeps and begs to be with us,” she said.In late January, Victor Antonio Marin was separated from his 4-year-old son, whose mother is deceased, after they were detained near Calexico, Calif. According to his lawyer, Bob Boyce, Mr. Marin had a 20-year-old nonviolent robbery conviction in the United States that did not involve the use of a weapon. He served time and was deported back to El Salvador.Now Mr. Marin remains locked up in an immigration detention center while his child is in a shelter in Texas.Ruben Garcia, who runs a network of migrant shelters in El Paso, said that immigration authorities this month dropped off a distraught 18-year-old woman from Guatemala.The woman said she had given birth less than a week earlier and had been separated from her baby. Child welfare authorities had come to the hospital to take the child, who was a United States citizen; immigration agents took the mother back to a detention cell where she waited for several days. The baby’s first two weeks were spent away from the mother, who finally regained custody after interventions from multiple legal-aid groups, Mr. Garcia said.Since Mr. Trump ended the family separations under “zero tolerance” on June 20, about 2,700 children have been reunited with their parents. Still, thousands more children who were separated before the policy officially went into effect have not been accounted for, according to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. The investigators cited the lack of an efficient tracking system.The American Civil Liberties Union requested that the government locate the families, and on Friday, Judge Dana M. Sabraw ruled that they should be included in the pending litigation over protecting and reuniting separated families.“The hallmark of a civilized society is measured by how it treats its people and those within its borders,” the judge wrote in his opinion.Some families affected by the earlier zero-tolerance separations continue to face repercussions.A 9-year-old Guatemalan boy named Byron Xol has been shuffled among four shelters since he was dragged away from his father at the border nine months ago, while the policy was still in place.After his father was deported to Guatemala, the boy’s parents decided that the child should remain in the United States for safety reasons. With the help of a lawyer, they designated an American family in Buda, Tex., to care for him.But authorities have refused to allow Byron to join the family, citing an anti-trafficking policy that bars a child from being released to a nonrelative sponsor unless the sponsor has a verifiable relationship with the child going back at least a year.Detentions and deportation proceedings have also resulted in family separations far from the border.Christy Swatzell, an immigration lawyer in Memphis, said that two of her clients who crossed the border without authorization and were released to await the outcome of their cases were told by Immigration and Customs Enforcement to leave their children at home ahead of their monthly check-in with the agency. When they showed up at the I.C.E. office, they were detained and transferred to an immigration facility in Louisiana.One of the clients, Francisca Yanes, 33, is the mother of a 6-year-old girl who is physically disabled. “I was in tears, telling them about my daughter. But it didn’t matter,” said Ms. Yanes, whose child, Paola, remained in the care of family members for the entire 45 days she was in detention.The Guatemalan migrant was released on a $7,500 bond set by the court after her lawyer filed a motion on her behalf. “What we are seeing is that families are being effectively separated,” said Ms. Swatzell. “Just not at the border anymore.”Miriam Jordan reported from Oakland, Calif., and Caitlin Dickerson reported from New York.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanLOS ANGELES — Creating yet another roadblock to the Trump administration’s efforts to deport ineligible migrants, a federal appeals court ruled on Thursday that immigration authorities can no longer swiftly deport asylum seekers who fail an initial screening, opening the door for thousands of migrants a year to get another shot in the federal courts to win asylum in the United States.The ruling broadens constitutional protections for undocumented immigrants at the border and opens a new legal gateway for some of them to appeal for permission to stay in the country, even when an asylum officer and an immigration judge have made a determination that they do not have a credible fear of persecution in their homeland.“The historical and practical importance of this ruling cannot be overstated,” said Lee Gelernt, deputy director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s Immigrants’ Rights Project, who argued the appeal on behalf of a Sri Lankan migrant who had been turned away at California’s border with Mexico in 2017. He said the ruling “reaffirms the Constitution’s foundational principle that individuals deprived of their liberty must have access to a federal court.”After dropping precipitously over five decades, the number of migrants intercepted at the southern border — the key indicator of how many undocumented people are entering the United States — is soaring again, driven by an influx of families from Central America fleeing violence and poverty. Immigration authorities received more than 99,000 requests for asylum interviews during the 2018 fiscal year, including more than 54,000 submitted at the southwest border.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]President Trump has said that migrants are exploiting the asylum system by making baseless and fraudulent claims in order to remain in the United States, and his administration has taken a number of steps to make the process harder, including narrowing the grounds for winning asylum, limiting the number of asylum seekers who can be processed at the border each day and requiring some applicants to wait in Mexico while their cases make their way through the courts.In 2016, the most recent year for which data is available, an estimated 7,200 migrants were denied permission to apply for asylum after their initial interviews and were placed in expedited deportation proceedings. An analysis by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University found that in June 2018, only 15 percent of initial asylum reviews found that the asylum seeker had a credible fear of persecution, about half the proportion that had prevailed a year earlier.Thursday’s court decision will most likely send that trend in the other direction, legal analysts said.“This is a historic decision,” said Stephen Yale-Loehr, an immigration scholar at Cornell Law School. “But the government will surely appeal this to the Supreme Court.”The opinion, from the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, extends constitutional habeas corpus guarantees to those applying for asylum at the border and provides that they can seek a hearing in the federal courts before being summarily deported — though the court did not specify what standards the courts must use to evaluate such petitions.The ruling applies to asylum seekers in the nine western states included in the court’s jurisdiction and, because it conflicts with an earlier ruling rejecting such legal protections in the Third Circuit, the issue is likely to be resolved ultimately by the Supreme Court. In the meantime, legal analysts said, the court’s decision is likely to have sweeping implications for immigration deterrence efforts by enabling thousands to remain in the country while they seek the court review.Under current procedure, every migrant who arrives at the border and expresses a fear of persecution in his or her homeland is referred for an interview with an asylum officer. Those who succeed in convincing the officer that they have a credible fear are allowed to enter the country and proceed with their asylum cases in the immigration courts. Those who don’t can request a review by an immigration judge, but it is usually cursory and favorable decisions are rare. There is usually no access to a lawyer, and no opportunity to challenge the decision; deportation quickly ensues.In the case before the appeals court, Vijayakumar Thuraissigiam, a member of Sri Lanka’s Tamil ethnic minority, was arrested about 25 yards north of the border near San Ysidro, Calif., and told an asylum officer that he was fearful of returning to his homeland. The officer found no credible fear, and that finding was upheld by a supervisor and an immigration judge.Mr. Thuraissigiam was in deportation proceedings when he filed a habeas corpus petition in the federal court. He argued that the asylum officer had failed to elicit important background about his case, including that he had been detained and beaten by Sri Lankan army officers on two occasions, and at one point had been lowered into a well and nearly drowned. He also said there were communication problems between the translator and both the asylum officer and the immigration judge.As a result, his lawyers argued, he was deprived of “a meaningful right to apply for asylum.”A district court judge in Los Angeles rejected that argument, but the three-judge appeals court panel, sitting in San Francisco, held that even though an asylum seeker may lack the right to a full trial in immigration court, the Constitution requires a more complete review than what immigration law currently provides.At its “historical core,” said the 48-page opinion written by Judge A. Wallace Tashima, “the writ of habeas corpus has served as a means of reviewing the legality of executive detention, and it is in that context that its protections have been strongest.”An earlier version of this article listed five states in the 9th Circuit’s jurisdiction. There are nine states, plus additional territories.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNot so long ago, the party had a clear platform. It no longer does.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.The Democratic Party no longer has a clear policy on immigration.It used to, not so long ago. The party’s leaders knew what they favored and felt comfortable saying so. Their platform generally included: 1) a path to citizenship for immigrants who came to this country illegally but had since obeyed the law; 2) deportation of undocumented immigrants who had since broken the law in significant ways; 3) fairly robust border security and investigation of companies employing undocumented immigrants, to hold down current and future levels of illegal immigration.Besides favoring these policies, Democrats were also willing to talk about the benefits of limiting immigration and of assimilation. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Consider this 2015 statement from Bernie Sanders: “What right-wing people in this country would love is an open-border policy … I don’t believe in that. I think we have to raise wages in this country.”Or this 2006 line from Barack Obama, in his book, “The Audacity of Hope”: “When I see Mexican flags waved at pro-immigration demonstrations, I sometimes feel a flush of patriotic resentment.”Or this comment last year from Hillary Clinton: “I think Europe needs to get a handle on migration.” It earned her immediate condemnation from progressives and a scathing story in The Times.I understand why the Democratic Party has moved to the left on immigration policy over the past few years. It is, in significant part, an honorable reaction to Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant racism and a desire to stand up for immigrants during his presidency. The Trump administration has separated immigrant children from their parents, and Democrats are trying to protect those families.What’s less clear to me is exactly what the Democratic Party’s new position on immigration is.Questions to answerAmong the questions that I’d like Democrats to answer:What kind of border security do you believe in? Do you favor the policies Obama put in place to reduce illegal immigration — or a different approach?Do you believe that immigrants who enter this country illegally should be allowed to stay? If not, which categories of undocumented immigrants should be at risk of deportation? (In a 2016 debate, Clinton and Sanders didn’t offer clear answers when Univision’s Jorge Ramos asked similar questions.)What do you believe should happen to future levels of legal immigration? And what should happen to the mix of different categories of immigration? Should family connections play as large a role as they now do? Should workplace skills continue to play a small role?Do you believe, as Sanders suggested in 2015, that more immigration can reduce wages, especially for lower-income workers and recent immigrants themselves?My own view is that the country benefits from significant limits on immigration. As David Frum notes in a recent cover story for The Atlantic, immigration levels were quite low for much of the 20th century — from roughly the 1910s through the 1970s. The slowdown helped many of the immigrants who arrived in the waves before 1910 (including parts of my family). They faced less competition in the labor market. Labor unions were more easily able to grow, because they were organizing an increasingly assimilated workforce. The immigration slowdown played a role in the great income surge of the post-World War II decades. Today, I’d favor a policy with a lot of similarities to the Democrats’ platform of the Obama years, including humane treatment of immigrants already here plus tight border security. I’d change the mix of immigration, to let in fewer low-skills immigrants and more high-skills immigrants. Doing so has the potential to reduce inequality and lift economic growth.I recognize that this platform is probably too conservative for many Democrats. But high levels of immigration, stretching over many decades, is not an American tradition. It’s something new, and it brings both upsides and downsides.For anyone who wants to think through the subject, I recommend Frum’s article. (The politician quotations above come from it.) For critiques of Frum’s piece, see Nancy LeTourneau in Washington Monthly and Noah Smith of Bloomberg Opinion.If nothing else, I’d urge Democrats to look at public opinion on immigration with an open mind. The polling isn’t as favorable as some of the recent conversation on the left has suggested. In a recent Gallup poll, 47 percent of Americans called illegal immigration a critical threat and another 30 percent called it an important threat.I wouldn’t call it either of those. But I do think it’s folly — both substantively and politically — to pretend that more immigration is always better than less. And I think it’s a mistake for Democrats to be so unclear about what their party’s immigration agenda is.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLethal partisanship is taking us into dangerous territory.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.A recent survey asked Republicans and Democrats whether they agreed with the statement that members of the opposition party “are not just worse for politics — they are downright evil.”The answers, published in January in a paper, “Lethal Mass Partisanship,” were startling, but maybe they shouldn’t have been.Just over 42 percent of the people in each party view the opposition as “downright evil.” In real numbers, this suggests that 48.8 million voters out of the 136.7 million who cast ballots in 2016 believe that members of opposition party are in league with the devil.The mass partisanship paper was written by Nathan P. Kalmoe and Lilliana Mason, political scientists at Louisiana State University and the University of Maryland.Kalmoe and Mason, taking the exploration of partisan animosity a step farther, found that nearly one out of five Republicans and Democrats agree with the statement that their political adversaries “lack the traits to be considered fully human — they behave like animals.”Their line of questioning did not stop there.How about: “Do you ever think: ‘we’d be better off as a country if large numbers of the opposing party in the public today just died’?”Some 20 percent of Democrats (that translates to 12.6 million voters) and 16 percent of Republicans (or 7.9 million voters) do think on occasion that the country would be better off if large numbers of the opposition died.We’re not finished: “What if the opposing party wins the 2020 presidential election. How much do you feel violence would be justified then?” 18.3 percent of Democrats and 13.8 percent of Republicans said violence would be justified on a scale ranging from “a little” to “a lot.”Kalmoe and Mason analyzed the data to see what kind of voter was likely to adopt extremely critical views of the opposition party: Strongly identifying with one political side is associated with increased political hostility toward opponents in terms of moral disengagement, partisan schadenfreude, and partisan violence.One personal trait stood out: “Aggression was the only factor that predicted all three types of lethal partisan attitudes.”Contrary to the expectation that the losers of elections might be more inclined to violence, the two authors determined that winning increases support for violence against the opposition.There was “significantly more support for partisan violence among strong partisans when told their party was more likely than not to win in 2020.”Overall, the authors wrote, “our evidence suggests that winning more than losing prompts strong partisans to feel less opposed to partisan violence.”As partisan hostility deepens, there is one group that might ordinarily be expected to help pull the electorate out of this morass — the most knowledgeable and sophisticated voters.According to a forthcoming study, however, it is just these voters who display the most uncritical acceptance of party orthodoxy, left or right. On both sides, the best informed voters are by far the most partisan.In “Understanding Partisan Cue Receptivity,” Bert N. Bakker and Yphtach Lelkes, professors at the Amsterdam School of Communication Research and the University of Pennsylvania, and Ariel Malka, a professor of psychology at Yeshiva University, find that knowledgeable, politically engaged voters are the most likely “to adopt issue attitudes that are cued as party-consistent in the political information environment.” In plain language, the most active voters — those notably “high in cognitive resources” — are the most willing to accept policy positions endorsed by their party, and they are doing so not out of principle, but to affirm their identity as a Democrat or Republican. They are expressing “the desire to reach conclusions that are consistent with a valued identity.”The authors call this process “identity expression” or a “tendency of partisans to adopt issue attitudes that are cued as party-consistent in the political information environment.”This willingness to adopt a policy position not out of conviction but out of a desire to conform to partisan priorities reflects an urge, they write, “to bolster and protect valued political identities by expressing and rationalizing the viewpoints cued to be consistent with these identities.”In an email, Lelkes wrote that he and his co-authors felt it important “to be careful about causal reasoning.” They concluded their article with this commentary:Ironically, reflective citizens, who are sometimes seen as ideal citizens, might be the subset of strong partisan identifiers most likely to fall in line with the party. Since higher levels of cognitive resources and partisan social identity are associated with higher levels of political activism, the effect may be self-reinforcing, wherein political elites polarize the strongly identified and cognitively reflective, who then elect more polarized elites. The democratic dilemma may not be whether low information citizens can learn what they need to know, but whether high information citizens can set aside their partisan predispositions.These two papers raise a set of basic questions about group identity: Why are partisan divisions sharpening now and are these conflicts likely to become more aggravated?Robert Kurzban, the author of “The Hidden Agenda of the Political Mind,” argues that domestic politics have taken on a moralistic, judgmental cast:There is a rise in “purity tests” for politicians, such that if they do not adopt the line of the party on core issues — especially those to do with identity politics — they are subject to round condemnation.Any deviation, Kurzban continued in an email, is likely to be severely punished: Being just a tiny bit out of step is seen as grievous a sin as being completely out of step. People are seeing others’ positions as categorical rather than continuous.Steven Pinker, a professor of psychology at Harvard, argues that it is the activation of group identity — of the friend-enemy type, about which I have written before — that is driving hostile polarization:Certainly there is a tribal flavor to political polarization. Men’s testosterone rises or falls on election night, depending on whether their side wins, just as it does on Super Bowl Sunday.But, he continued,the coalitions clustering at the poles are not tribes in the classical anthropological sense. Today’s left- and right-wingers for the most part aren’t inventing myths of shared blood and common ancestry, or binding together in ritual ordeals, or blending in appearance with a common uniform.Instead, Pinker argued,I think we’re seeing a somewhat different psychological phenomenon: dynamically sorting ourselves into coalitions defined by moralistic condemnation of designated enemies.Pinker cited the questions raised in the work of Kurzban and Peter DeScioli, a political scientist at Stony Brook, wonderingwhy so much of our moralizing does not consist in pondering how to universalize the maxim of our actions or to bring about the greatest good for the greatest number, but rather of condemning, demonizing, or scapegoating a designated sinner.DeScioli provided some answers to the question in his replies to my queries:Our coalitional psychology goes far beyond a simple distinction between us and them. We form coalitions nested within coalitions, and our loyalties can suddenly shift. Our minds keep track of other individuals’ allies and enemies in an ornate network of loyalties. Conflicts routinely occur within a group, and generally more often than against outgroups. We use aggression as a tactic both within and between groups, and we do so cautiously, weighing the costs and benefits. Our coalitional psychology is more like a Machiavellian playbook of strategies than a simple reflex of hostility toward an outgroup. Partisan hostility is certainly a form of coalitional aggression rooted in evolved strategies, but so are the prudent strategies of peace and compromise.Moral condemnation, DeScioli wrote, is aprime suspect behind partisan hostility. Moral judgment inspires outrage and a desire to punish wrongdoers, forming a potent source of aggression. I have argued that moral judgment is an evolved strategy for choosing sides in conflicts. We seek retribution not only to deter harmful behavior but also to show which side we are on in a dispute.Moral condemnation and approbation can both be useful to encourage productive cooperation within a group, but they can also be deeply destructive when used to demonize and humiliate outsiders.John Hibbing, a political scientist at the University of Nebraska, makes the case that polarization has intensified becausethe central political issues of the day revolve around in-group versus out-group, the definition of the in-group, and the unity and security of the in-group.While as recently as 30 years ago, there were a fair number of conservative Democrats and liberal Republicans who held views contrary to the majority of their respective parties, Hibbing wrote,the problem today is that there are so few cross-cutting cleavages. There is only one cleavage and it is the most evolutionarily primal cleavage of them all.Hibbing dismissed the argument that people have “become tribal because of changes in the media environment.” Instead, he wrote,people became tribal because the fundamental substantive issues today are about tribe. We are a group-based species.Kevin Smith, who is also a political scientist at the University of Nebraska, argues that humans are incredibly groupish creatures — as a species we’re pretty hard wired to make “us v them” categorizations.For much of the twentieth century, according to this line of thinking, the first world war, the Great Depression, the second world war and the Cold War filled much of the need for an in-group versus out-group configuration. During this period, Smith said, there were consensual “sources of information” and political parties “that were relatively nonideological” with many members “willing to cross the aisle to cut deals.”In recent years, “a lot of that has gone,” Smith told me. “Political parties are now deeply ideological,” which makes it easier toappeal to our “us versus them” instinct. Indeed, it makes it more and more likely that we emotionally attach ourselves to a particularly political group, remain reflexively loyal to it, and automatically denigrate anyone who disagrees with it — we are indeed hard-wired for this sort of thing and political parties have, in effect, organized themselves around, and are now appealing directly to, that part of our psychology which is, and always has been, more emotional than rational.When, if ever, will things improve? Jonathan Haidt, a psychologist at N.Y.U., is not optimistic. He emailed:I am expecting that America’s political dysfunction and anger will worsen, and will continue to worsen even after Donald Trump leaves the White House.Why?The reasons for my pessimism are that 1) social media gets ever more effective at drowning us in outrage; 2) overall trust in institutions continues to decline, which makes it seem ever more urgent that “our” side take total control; 3) the younger generations have not seen effective political institutions or norms during their lives, and also seem less adept at handling political disagreements; and 4) the norms of campus regarding call-out culture seem to be spreading quickly into business and many other institutions.Two of the most insightful people on evolved human behavior are Leda Cosmides and John Tooby, professors of psychology and anthropology at the University of California, Santa Barbara.Cosmides and Tooby explore the complexities and ambiguities of moral reasoning in their seminal essay “Groups in Mind: The Coalitional Roots of War and Morality,” which concludes on an appropriately ambiguous note:The set of evolved programs that enable and drive warfare and politics strongly overlap with the set of evolved programs that drive human morality. The mapping of these evolved programs and their embedded circuit logic is only in its infancy, and we have only sketched out some of the known or predicted features of our coalitional and moral psychologies. However, progress in this enterprise holds out the possibility of gradually throwing light on some of the darkest areas of human life.In a lengthy email that I cannot fully do justice to in this column, Tooby wrote that everybodybenefits from participating in groups of alliances and factions on different scales, and people also benefit by fractionating solidarity in such a way that those on the far side of the boundary seem undesirable, worth spurning, contemptible, deplorable.This, in turn, encourages evolved mental programs that support self-advantageous information warfare: Of all the signals an individual hears, and out of all the spontaneous thoughts that teem in our minds, each individual filters, remembers, and broadcasts what benefits her in building up herself and her allies, and downgrades those who are her rivals.Tooby added: “I think we cannot begin to appreciate how immense and all-encompassing this process is.”Tooby pointed to group pressure to adopt down the line agreement on issues when there is, in fact, much room for dissent and disagreement:There is no necessary reason why someone’s position on abortion should predict their position on global warming should predict their position on welfare should predict their position on school choice should predict their position on illegal immigration. These are all entirely logically independent, yet there is a natural tendency for alliance gravitation to pull people into sets — often binary sets — because issues are more often flags of identity, and it creates in-group dissension to have a multiplicity of views inside the group.Even more important, he writes,Honest reasoning about issues is inconsistent with group loyalty. To be a good group member, I should adhere to a position because it is the group’s position, while believing that the facts justify it.Leda Cosmides expressed some of her ideas about the connection between us-and-them thinking and evil, the topic with which I began this column, in an interview that was originally published in a Chilean newspaper in 2001 and still resonates:The world has many people with evil motives, who will twist whatever ideas are around them to their own ends. Hitler, for example, was more influenced by folk notions about “blood” (found everywhere) than by any real biological knowledge.She went on:Since the Enlightenment, people have been trying to build bridges between disciplines, and when they do, new insights are achieved and humanity benefits. Should the healing arts have been kept separate from biology? If they had, we would not have antibiotics and modern medicine. Should psychology be kept separate from biology? If it is, we will never understand how the mind works. As a result, we will never understand how to make war less likely, how to cure autism, how to help people understand risk, or how to prevent racism, to name just a few problems on which evolutionary psychologists are making progress. Indeed, if we keep psychology separate from biology, people will continue to believe that “race” is a sensible concept; in contrast, human population biology tells us that humanity is not divided into distinct “races.”This work is far from done.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zolan Kanno-YoungsWASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said on Monday that cyberthreats against the United States were a national security crisis that she described as her top priority — not the situation for which President Trump last month declared a national emergency.“On top of my list of threats, that many of you can guess, the word ‘cyber’ is circled, highlighted and underlined,” Ms. Nielsen said in a speech outlining her department’s focus in the coming year. “The cyberdomain is a target, a weapon and a threat vector all at the same time.”Mr. Trump has called the increasing flow of immigrants to the southern border one of the most urgent national security issues threatening the United States. Last week, issuing his first veto against legislation that would have blocked him from diverting Defense Department funds to build a border wall, the president described a recent spike in migrants crossing the border as an “invasion.”The Department of Homeland Security oversees customs officers and immigration agents who are on the front lines of the Trump administration’s campaign to close the border to illegal immigration.Ms. Nielsen did dedicate a portion of her speech on Monday to what she called a “humanitarian and security catastrophe” of Central American families traveling to the border. She also noted that the projected number of migrants who may be apprehended at the southern border this month was expected to rise to 100,000, up from 76,000 in February.But mentions of digital threats were dispersed throughout her approximately 35-minute address to an auditorium of various Department of Homeland Security officials.Among global jihadists and transnational criminals, Ms. Nielsen listed “cyberthugs and hackers and resurgent nation-state rivals” as an emerging threat to the United States. She asked two cybersecurity officials who helped safeguard the 2018 elections to stand for a round of applause.Ms. Nielsen also assailed President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and the Kremlin “for a concerted effort to undermine our elections and our democratic process using cyberenabled means.” And she said the average American citizen or company was “no match” for virtual threats from Russia, China, North Korea and Iran.“I am more worried about the ability of bad guys to hijack our networks than their ability to hijack our flights,” Ms. Nielsen said. “I am concerned about them holding our infrastructure hostage, stealing our money and secrets, exploiting children online and even hacking our democracy.”John Cohen, a former acting under secretary for intelligence during the Obama administration, said law enforcement could no longer look at the threats in the digital world and the physical world as separate issues. Extremist groups now circulate videos on the internet to inspire terrorist attacks, and drug traffickers are using the dark web — something Ms. Nielsen also highlighted in her speech.Mr. Cohen said he remained unclear on how Ms. Nielsen proposed combating cybersecurity threats.“There is an incredible amount of talent at D.H.S.,” said Mr. Cohen, also a senior adviser at the agency during the George W. Bush administration. “My concern is that talent and those capabilities are being underutilized, because in the eyes of many at the White House, the sole purpose for D.H.S. is to conduct its immigrant and border security activities.”Ms. Nielsen said the department was focused on increasing collaboration with the private sector, citing a summit meeting held in New York last year for industry and government officials. She said she expected the cooperation between various homeland security agencies to improve when the department consolidates at a former mental hospital next month.She praised the department’s work in defending the integrity of the 2018 midterm elections and said she was confident in her department’s ability to secure the 2020 presidential vote. Ms. Nielsen also said homeland security would continue to pursue prosecutions against foreign entities that hack the American digital infrastructure.“What worries me, though, is not what these threat actors have done,” Ms. Nielsen said, “but what they have the capability to do.”AdvertisementAdvertisement

      Compiled by NATALIE PROULX

MARCH 12, 2019

Above is an image related to a news story we followed this past week. Do you know what it shows? At the bottom of this quiz, you’ll find the answer.Have you been paying attention to the news recently? See how many of these 10 questions you can get right.A jetliner with passengers from at least 35 countries crashed March 10 shortly after leaving  capital, killing all 157 people on board and renewing concerns about the new model of aircraft involved in the accident, the popular Boeing 737 Max 8.Argentina’sEthiopia’sGermany’sIndonesia’sMore than 76,000 migrants crossed the United States’ southwest border without authorization in February, an 11-year high and a strong sign that  have not reversed what remains a powerful lure for thousands of families fleeing violence and poverty.increased aid to and government partnerships with South and Central American countriesopen borders and more lenient immigration policiesstepped-up prosecutions, new controls on asylum and harsher detention policiestravel bans from Mexico, Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador to the United StatesPresident Trump sent Congress a record $4.75 trillion budget request on March 11 that proposes an increase in  spending and sharp cuts to domestic programs like  for the 2020 fiscal year.clean energy; federal housing support and Medicaidhealthcare; border security and immigration enforcementmilitary; education and environmental protectionscience and arts; school safety and childcareFor just the second time since the global epidemic began, a patient appears to have been cured of .Alzheimer’s disease, the most common type of dementiaEbola, a highly infectious and fatal diseaseinfection with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDStuberculosis, one of the world’s deadliest diseasesTwenty-eight members of the world champion United States women’s soccer team significantly escalated their long-running fight with the country’s soccer federation over pay equity and working conditions, filing a  lawsuit on March 8.breach of contractgender discriminationlibel and defamationsexual harassmentNorth Korea has started rebuilding the facilities it uses to launch satellites into orbit and test technologies for its , according to American military analysts and South Korean intelligence officials.aeronautics and space agency citizen tracking and control technologyintercontinental ballistic missile programinternational media organizationA resolution condemning , which stemmed from an uproar that erupted after Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, a freshman Democrat, insinuated that backers of Israel exhibit dual loyalty, passed the House by an overwhelming 407-to-23 vote on March 7.“criticism of lawmakers”“disapproval of Israel in any form”“hateful expressions of intolerance”“the spread of fake news”America’s  rose to its highest level in history last year, even though President Trump has long boasted that his policies would reduce it. illegal immigrationincarceration ratetrade deficit in goodsunemployment rate, the political consultant and Trump presidential campaign chairman who became a target of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, was sentenced on March 7 to nearly four years in prison for financial fraud.Michael D. CohenMichael T. FlynnPaul ManafortRoger J. Stone Jr.Three of the facts below about the Green New Deal, a congressional resolution that lays out a grand plan for tackling climate change, are true and were recently published in The New York Times. One is a fake fact published on the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake fact?It aims to guarantee new high-paying jobs in clean energy industries.It calls on the federal government to wean the United States from fossil fuels and curb planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions across the economy.It includes a ban on kites to increase the supply of farmable wind.Republicans have cast the Green New Deal as a socialist takeover and say it is evidence that Democrats are far from the mainstream on energy issues. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Elisabetta PovoledoROME — An Italian school bus driver took 51 seventh-graders hostage in northern Italy on Wednesday, pouring gasoline on the bus floor and later setting it afire.After someone on the bus made an emergency call, Italian carabinieri, or military police, reached the bus and safely rescued all the children, as well as two teachers and a janitor aboard, as it burst into flames.The driver, Osseynou Sy, an Italian of Senegalese origin, said that “he wanted to vindicate the dead of the Mediterranean,” according to Warrant Officer Marco Palmieri, a spokesman for Milan’s provincial branch of the carabinieri, Italy’s military police.Mr. Sy, he said, was referring to the large number of migrants who lose their lives each year during the perilous crossing of the Mediterranean from North Africa to Europe. The International Organization for Migration estimates that 282 people have drowned that way this year.A promise to curb migration from North Africa was a key factor in the election of Italy’s populist national government a year ago. Since then, the country — once a principal hub for migrants crossing the Mediterranean — has closed its ports to nongovernmental rescue vessels, to force other European countries to bear the burden of migrant landings.The Italian interior ministry announced on Sunday that migrant arrivals were down 94 percent this year, compared to 2018.Mr. Sy was arrested and treated at a Milanese hospital for burns on his hand. He was expected to be charged with kidnapping; arson; resisting arrest; intention to commit mass murder, because some students were still on the bus when it burst into flames; and terrorism as an aggravating factor, because he “created panic and threatened Italian institutions,” said Alberto Nobili, one of the Milanese prosecutors assigned to the case.Mr. Sy told prosecutors that he had acted alone and that he intended to send a message to African immigrants “not to come to Europe, but at the same time to punish Europe for what he saw as its unacceptable migration policies,” Mr. Nobili said at a news conference in Milan on Wednesday night.The students, who attend a middle school in Crema, a city some 50 kilometers, or almost 32 miles, east of Milan, were returning from gym class when Mr. Sy, a regular driver on the route, poured gasoline down the bus’s center aisle and announced that he was hijacking it and taking them to Linate Airport in Milan, investigators said.He then gave zip ties to the three adults, ordering them to tie each child’s wrists together as he drove. As they went back the rows of seats, the adults left the zip ties progressively looser, another prosecutor, Francesco Greco, said.Police in two carabinieri cars, tipped off by the phone call, forced the bus to stop on the Paullese provincial highway, but Mr. Sy rammed the cars again and again. While some officers tried to speak to him, others from a third military police car forced the bus’s side door open and broke the windows at the back to allow the passengers to flee.At that point, Mr. Sy apparently ignited a lighter he was holding, officers said, and the bus caught fire as the hostages were escaping.Italian television stations showed images of the charred skeleton of the bus, completely destroyed.Asked why the adults did not try to overpower the driver, Warrant Officer Palmieri said that he could not speak for them, but that “the threat was very real.”Mr. Sy was born in Senegal in 1972, investigators said, and became an Italian citizen in 2004. His wife, from whom he is separated, is Italian, and the couple have two children.Mr. Sy had been working for the Autoguidovie bus company for 15 years, a company official, Corrado Bianchessi, said. He “never gave any particular signal” to indicate what he had planned, Mr. Bianchessi told the Italian channel of Sky News. “We are amazed,” he said.Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini, who is also Italy’s interior minister and a major opponent of illegal immigration, posted a tweet in which he said that Mr. Sy had a police record for driving under the influence and sexual assault.“Why was someone with such record driving a bus for school children?” he asked. But prosecutors said the offenses were relatively minor.Mr. Nobili said Mr. Sy had made a video explaining his actions on Tuesday. “He wanted the world to speak of this event,” he said, adding that prosecutors had no sense the episode was tied to “radicalized terrorism.”He said Mr. Sy told investigators he wanted to board a plane to Senegal from Linate Airport, but it was unclear how he could do that or what he intended to do with the students, who were around 12 years old.Mr. Sy told prosecutors he never wanted to hurt anyone, but Mr. Greco wasn’t buying it. “If we’re not crying over the death” of dozens of schoolchildren, he said, “it is thanks to the courage and rapid response of the carabinieri.”“It could have been a massacre,” he told the Ansa news agency.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Manny Fernandez and Mitchell FermanMCALLEN, Tex. — Border Patrol detention centers in Texas’s Rio Grande Valley have soared well past their capacity in recent days, prompting mass releases of migrants onto the streets as local leaders scramble to house and feed hundreds of new arrivals daily.“They’re as stressed as we are,” Jim Darling, mayor of the South Texas border city of McAllen, said of Border Patrol officials. The officials have released more than 2,200 people from government processing facilities in the Rio Grande Valley since Monday, setting aside once again the Trump administration’s vow to end what it calls “catch and release” of those who cross the border without authorization.“We’re trying to determine how many sites we have to have. The last thing we want is people walking our streets and having to sleep in doorways,” Mr. Darling said.The primary migrant-services facility in the region, a former nursing home in McAllen now used by Catholic Charities as an immigrant respite center, is already reaching capacity, with nearly every inch of the low-slung red-brick building occupied.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The air was thick with the smell of sweat Tuesday evening, with dozens of people waiting for assistance at the front of the building. Two government buses pulled up outside to drop off even more: 54 in one bus and 57 in the second. On Wednesday, migrants slept on blue padded mats on the floors of small crowded rooms as they waited for rides to the downtown bus station.In El Paso, the sudden release of about 150 migrants on Tuesday set in motion a flurry to try to accommodate them. A network of shelters run by the nonprofit Annunciation House had no more space, so city officials converted a public park into a staging area, until space for the migrants was found at local hotels.Unauthorized border crossings have spiked in recent months, with more than 76,000 migrants apprehended on the southwest border in February, an 11-year high. Processing facilities in El Paso and in the Rio Grande Valley region in South Texas have swelled with migrant families in recent days. Early Tuesday, Border Patrol agents at the border fence in El Paso apprehended a group of 194 men, women and children traveling together. About five minutes later, agents in another part of the city took in a second group of 252 migrants.Last week, agents in the McAllen area encountered a group of nearly 300 migrants walking toward a river levee, the largest such group seen this year. In a single 24-hour period, agents in that region had apprehended more than 1,000 migrants, most of them voluntarily turning themselves in and seeking protection under asylum laws.The unusually large numbers are what caused agents in the Border Patrol’s Rio Grande Valley sector this week to release some migrant families at an early stage, the agency said. The releases bypassed the usual procedure in which newly arrived migrants are handed over after initial processing to another federal agency, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which may detain them or release them with some requirement that they will show up for future court appearances.Instead, migrants traveling in families are being released directly by Customs and Border Protection, the Border Patrol’s parent agency, after being given papers instructing them to show up at a later date in immigration court. Local officials were told that Border Patrol facilities in the area were over capacity by about 2,100 migrants.The Border Patrol said in a statement that the recent increase in apprehensions led to a “limited availability of space” at the agency’s facilities in the Rio Grande Valley sector. Out of concern for the safety of officers and migrants, the agency said it had begun to release families after giving them a notice to appear in immigration court.“R.G.V. Sector will continue to coordinate with state and local stakeholders and nongovernmental organizations while these temporary measures are in place,” the agency said.The recent releases resembled a similar series of unannounced mass releases of migrants late last year in El Paso and San Diego. This time, however, federal immigration agencies appeared to be coordinating more closely with local officials, who in December had been caught off guard.The mass release in McAllen has caused a ripple effect along the Texas border. Officials in Brownsville, 60 miles east of McAllen, were told by Border Patrol officials to expect releases there in the coming days as well. It appeared that the Border Patrol intended to ease pressure on the McAllen shelter network by putting migrants on buses and dropping them off in Brownsville.Tony Martinez, the mayor of Brownsville, said the city was prepared to open the downtown bus station for 24 hours to accommodate migrants. After their release, many migrants board buses to join their relatives already living elsewhere in the United States.“At this particular point, we are having meetings on a daily basis so that we can monitor the numbers,” Mr. Martinez said.The scramble comes as Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, was scheduled to visit McAllen on Thursday. Some immigrant advocates and elected officials were skeptical of the timing of the releases, suggesting they were part of a Trump administration effort to justify the president’s descriptions of a border in crisis and his declaration of a national emergency. Border Patrol officials deny such claims.Representative Vicente Gonzalez, a Texas Democrat whose district includes McAllen, criticized the mass release of migrants “without processing, without proper plans for housing and with no course of reasonable action” and questioned the administration’s motives.“President Trump, Secretary Nielsen, and the entire administration have been presented with the truth — there is no crisis on the U.S.-Mexico border,” he said in the statement. “Their response? Create one.”The nonprofit Texas Civil Rights Project, which has been conducting legal interviews with migrants released from Border Patrol custody in the Rio Grande Valley, said it appeared that the government was deliberately releasing them hundreds at a time. Some of those released recently reported that they had been detained for up to eight days, the group said. Normally, Customs and Border Protection holds newly detained migrants for about 72 hours.Also raising suspicion was a recent drop in the number of migrants prosecuted for illegal border crossings at the federal courthouse in McAllen. Prosecutions during January and February ranged from about 400 to 700 per week. But the number of migrants brought to the courthouse dropped sharply last week, with only 176 prosecuted, and 88 had been charged during the first three days of this week, even though overall apprehensions remained high.“Families should never be detained, but this practice must be met with skepticism,” Astrid Dominguez of the American Civil Liberties Union’s Border Rights Center said in a statement.On Tuesday, Sister Norma Pimentel, the executive director of Catholic Charities of the Rio Grande Valley, posted an urgent plea for assistance on Facebook, asking for volunteers in both McAllen and Brownsville, as well chicken and vegetables to make soup, and cereal and bananas for breakfast.Sister Pimentel later stood outside the respite center in a light rain to help newly arrived migrants off a bus. The respite center received more than 800 migrants on Monday, another 800 on Tuesday and more than 600 by Wednesday afternoon. Sister Pimentel said she was told by Border Patrol to expect up to 800 a day for an unspecified amount of time. In recent months, the most that Catholic Charities had assisted in one day was about 400.“It’s not typical at all,” she said amid a crowd of migrants in the front lobby. “We were not expecting this. The numbers are very high. They just simply said they’re apprehending big numbers and they’re over capacity, and they need to create the space for those that are just arriving.”She said city officials had identified two additional sites that can be used to house migrants if the numbers warrant. If those are not enough, the group plans to charter buses to Houston and possibly San Antonio, she said.As crowded as the respite center was, the conditions in the Border Patrol facilities were even more congested, some migrants who had just been released said.“There were so many people,” said Albertina, a 29-year-old Honduran mother who had just left the central processing center in McAllen. Albertina, who asked to be identified only by her first name, stood in line at the respite center holding her infant daughter, and said she was going to take a bus to join her family in Tennessee.A 45-year-old man from Honduras who identified himself as David said he had arrived with his 15-year-old son at a Border Patrol facility on Saturday. It was packed, he said.“Two thousand?” he called out to a friend. “What do you think?”“Yes, must have been,” the friend said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Tuesday adopted a strict interpretation of a federal immigration law, saying it required the detention of immigrants facing deportation without the possibility of bail if they had committed crimes, including minor ones, no matter how long ago they had been released from criminal custody.The vote was 5 to 4, with the court’s more conservative justices in the majority. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., writing for the majority, said the plain language of a federal law required the result.Justice Stephen G. Breyer summarized his dissent from the bench, a sign of profound disagreement. He said the majority had violated the nation’s basic values.“The greater importance of the case,” he said, “lies in the power that the majority’s interpretation grants the government. It is a power to detain persons who committed a minor crime many years before. And it is a power to hold those persons, perhaps for many months, without an opportunity to obtain bail.”Justice Alito said the law may be subject to constitutional challenges in individual cases, a subject that was not before the justices. It was clear, he wrote, that Congress had required the secretary of Homeland Security to take into custody immigrants released from criminal custody even if years had passed in the meantime.“An official’s crucial duties are better carried out late than never,” Justice Alito wrote.Cecillia Wang, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, which represented the immigrants challenging the law, said the decision was part of a worrisome trend.“For two terms in a row now,” she said, “the Supreme Court has endorsed the most extreme interpretation of immigration detention statutes, allowing mass incarceration of people without any hearing, simply because they are defending themselves against a deportation charge.”The case concerned a law, enacted in 1996, which included a contested phrase. It said federal authorities “shall take into custody any alien” convicted of certain crimes, some serious and some minor, “when the alien is released.” The key word was “when.”Immigrants’ rights advocates said the law required prompt detention. Lawyers for the federal government said immigrants convicted of crimes may be detained years after their release.The difference matters, for hundreds and perhaps thousands of immigrants, because people detained under the law are not entitled to a bail hearing to determine whether they are dangerous or pose a flight risk.The plaintiffs included people who entered the country illegally, tourists or students who overstayed their visas and lawful permanent residents. Among them were immigrants who arrived in the United States legally as infants, committed minor crimes like possessing marijuana and were detained years after completing their sentences.The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, concluded that the law requires mandatory detention only if the federal authorities take immigrants into custody soon after they are released.“Because Congress’s use of the word ‘when’ conveys immediacy,” Jacqueline H. Nguyen wrote for a unanimous three-judge panel, “we conclude that the immigration detention must occur promptly upon the aliens’ release from criminal custody.”Justice Alito wrote that such a strict deadline could allow local authorities opposed to federal immigration policy to frustrate the goals of the federal law.“State and local officials sometimes rebuff the government’s request that they give notice when a criminal alien will be released,” he wrote. He cited statistics indicating that there were tens of thousand of such refusals in 48 states from January 2014 to September 2016.“Under these circumstances, it is hard to believe that Congress made the secretary’s mandatory-detention authority vanish at the stroke of midnight after an alien’s release,” he wrote.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Clarence Thomas, Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh joined all or most of the majority opinion.In a concurring opinion, Justice Kavanaugh wrote that the question before the court was a narrow one.He said it was beyond dispute that the government can deport immigrants convicted of some crimes and that it can detain them during deportation proceedings.The question the court decided, he wrote, was merely whether “the executive branch’s mandatory duty to detain a particular noncitizen when the noncitizen is released from criminal custody remains mandatory if the executive branch fails to immediately detain the noncitizen when the noncitizen is released from criminal custody.”It would be odd, he wrote, for that requirement to change, for example, “if the executive branch fails to immediately detain the noncitizen because of resource constraints or because the executive branch cannot immediately locate and apprehend the individual in question.”In dissent, Justice Breyer wrote that the case was neither narrow nor technical.“Under the government’s view,” he wrote, “the aliens subject to detention without a bail hearing may have been released from criminal custody years earlier, and may have established families and put down roots in a community.”“These aliens,” Justice Breyer wrote, “may then be detained for months, sometimes years, without the possibility of release; they may have been convicted of only minor crimes — for example, minor drug offenses, or crimes of ‘moral turpitude’ such as illegally downloading music or possessing stolen bus transfers; and they sometimes may be innocent spouses or children of a suspect person.”Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan joined the dissent in the case, Nielsen v. Preap, No. 16-1363.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Astor[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.]Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman who just joined the Democratic presidential race, gained an instant following last year when he came within three points of unseating Senator Ted Cruz.But while he was able to stand out in his Senate campaign with a broadly liberal message and no signature policy issue, that broad message is not likely to be enough in a ballooning Democratic field.This time, the specifics are going to be crucial. Here’s a look at where Mr. O’Rourke stands on some major issues.As President Trump’s proposed border wall has become one of the biggest issues in American politics, Mr. O’Rourke has made immigration the centerpiece of his speeches.In addition to supporting the Dream Act and a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, he has called for the closing of private immigrant detention centers, denounced the “militarization” of immigration enforcement and spoken out against the wall.[Beto O’Rourke announces candidacy, joins field filled with committed progressives]“We are not safe because of walls but in spite of walls,” he said at a rally in El Paso last month  held at the same time Mr. Trump was holding his own rally nearby. Far from extending a barrier across the entire border, he has said, he would like to remove the existing fencing in El Paso — one of the country’s largest border cities, and Mr. O’Rourke’s hometown.In his State of the Union address, Mr. Trump held up El Paso as an example of the need for a wall, claiming that the city had been one of the most dangerous in the United States until a border fence was built there.But the crime rate in El Paso actually fell long before the fence was built and rose afterward, and Mr. O’Rourke is holding up the city as an example of the lack of need for a wall.Mr. O’Rourke arguably first made his name when, after the shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando in 2016, he live-streamed the sit-in he and other Democratic representatives were holding on the House floor in support of stricter gun laws.The Republican-controlled Congress did not pass any gun control legislation then, but Mr. O’Rourke continues to support similar policies, including universal background checks, magazine size limits and restrictions on some semiautomatic weapons.He also opposes concealed carry reciprocity, which would make concealed carry permits granted in any state valid nationwide, forcing states with strict licensing requirements to recognize permits from states with looser standards. It is one of the National Rifle Association’s legislative priorities.While Mr. O’Rourke supports universal health care — increasingly a litmus-test position for Democratic candidates — he hasn’t committed to a specific way to get there. During his Senate campaign, he suggested that universal health care could take the form of a single-payer system or “a dual system,” in which a government-run program would coexist with private insurance.He has given conflicting messages on the most prominent proposal, “Medicare for all.”In 2017, during his time in the House, he said unequivocally, “A single-payer ‘Medicare for all’ program is the best way to ensure all Americans get the health care they need.” But during his Senate campaign, he carefully avoided those words, calling instead for “universal, guaranteed, high-quality health care for all.”He does support expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act and has urged Texas to do so. Other points in his 2018 platform included allowing the government to negotiate prescription drug prices with manufacturers and creating incentives for insurers to participate in the Affordable Care Act’s exchanges.When it comes to proposals for mitigating climate change, opponents frequently cite the potential costs of those plans. But Mr. O’Rourke has emphasized the financial impact of climate change itself. Billions of dollars that are spent on steps like sea walls, which would be critical if climate change continues unchecked, is money not spent on other priorities, he noted at a town-hall event with Columbia University students last month.At that event, Mr. O’Rourke spoke positively about the Green New Deal, calling it technically and logistically doable. As for its political prospects, “I don’t know,” he said. “That’s up to all of us, right?”He supports the Paris climate accords, and has also made a point of emphasizing effects that climate change is having: more storms like Hurricane Harvey, for instance, which devastated Texas.Mr. O’Rourke emphasized criminal justice in his 2018 campaign, focusing in particular on racial and economic inequities. In an op-ed in The Houston Chronicle, he described his own criminal record — he was arrested once for attempted forcible entry and once for drunken driving when he was in his 20s; both charges were dismissed — and argued that his success since then had been possible because of his race and economic status.“The chance that I had, and which I have made the most of, is denied to too many of our fellow Texans, particularly those who don’t look like me or have access to the same opportunities that I did,” he wrote.He called for closing private and for-profit prisons, decriminalizing marijuana and expunging the records of people previously convicted of possessing it, eliminating mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent crimes, and reforming the bail system so people charged with misdemeanors would not be incarcerated because of their inability to pay.He also emphasized rehabilitation for offenders released from prison, including the restoration of voting rights. Currently, those rights vary drastically by state.Like many of the Democratic candidates, Mr. O’Rourke has criticized Mr. Trump’s trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs, which have hurt some farmers and blue-collar workers. In his Senate campaign, he emphasized the needs of farmers, calling for a stronger crop insurance program and federal investments in rural infrastructure, including high-speed internet, roads and schools.He has also drawn connections between agricultural policy and immigration policy, noting that immigrants — many of them undocumented — make up a large share of farm laborers. On that basis, he has cast immigration reform as an economic issue as well as a social one.“We should treat these individuals with dignity and respect,” he wrote on his website last year, “because they are a critical component of our agriculture communities.”Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Haberman, Annie Karni and Michael TackettLIMA, Ohio — It is an obsession he cannot seem to shake.Senator John McCain of Arizona has been dead for seven months, but President Trump’s feud with him is very much alive, and in front of a military audience at a tank plant here in Lima, Ohio, on Wednesday, he took it to a new level.He said he gave Mr. McCain “the funeral he wanted, and I didn’t get ‘thank you,’” exaggerating the role he played in honoring the senator’s death four days before his 82nd birthday.He blamed him for “a war in the Middle East that McCain pushed so hard.” He said that “McCain didn’t get the job done for our great vets” and the Department of Veterans Affairs. And he was blunt in saying that his animosity toward Mr. McCain was not going to change.“I have to be honest: I’ve never liked him much,” Mr. Trump said, about 10 minutes into a freewheeling speech that was ostensibly about the resurgence of manufacturing jobs. “Hasn’t been for me. I’ve really — probably never will.”The long, antagonistic history between the president and Mr. McCain, in his youth a Navy pilot and prisoner of war celebrated for his bravery and later known as a maverick in the Republican Party, dates to the early days of the 2016 presidential campaign. Mr. Trump, who never served in the military, said Mr. McCain was not a war hero, adding, “I like people who weren’t captured.”Mr. Trump was reacting to the senator’s accusation that he riled up “crazies” with inflammatory remarks about illegal immigration across the Mexican border. His attack on Mr. McCain, the party’s 2008 presidential candidate, horrified his own aides and led Republican leaders to denounce the outsider who was already disrupting their party. It also proved to be an early example of Mr. Trump’s ability to remain undamaged by any self-created controversy.Now, months after Mr. McCain’s death in August, Mr. Trump suddenly cannot stop talking about his old adversary, outraging Mr. McCain’s supporters and creating another divide — if only temporary — between himself and congressional Republicans.His attacks began over the weekend, when the president used his Twitter feed to berate Mr. McCain for his role in giving the F.B.I. a dossier of unverified information about Mr. Trump’s connections to Russia that was compiled by a former British spy — a dossier the F.B.I. already had. He brought up Mr. McCain’s vote against repealing the Affordable Care Act. He claimed that Mr. McCain, a former prisoner of war, was “last in his class” at the Naval Academy, when Mr. McCain actually graduated fifth from the bottom.On Tuesday, seated in the Oval Office next to President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil, Mr. Trump told reporters that he was “never a fan” of Mr. McCain, and never would be. And on Wednesday, Mr. Trump reiterated all those reasons in a diatribe that was part of a week that Mr. Trump seems to have dedicated to airing personal feuds.He has spent days criticizing George T. Conway III, the husband of Kellyanne Conway, one of his top advisers, who has been raising alarms about the president’s mental health and calling him unfit for office via his Twitter feed. On his way to Ohio, Mr. Trump called Mr. Conway a “whack job,” capping two days of back and forth with the spouse of one of his most loyal and longest-serving aides.But his relentless fixation on Mr. McCain was more reminiscent of an election-year feud Mr. Trump escalated against a Gold Star father, Khizr Khan, who spoke at the Democratic National Convention, and, brandishing a pocket Constitution, challenged Mr. Trump for smearing the character of Muslims. Republicans once again denounced Mr. Trump when he continued to attack Mr. Khan and his wife, who Mr. Trump implied was forced against her will to stand silently by her husband’s side during the emotional speech.The feud with Mr. McCain, however, has carried into his presidency, even after the man who was considered an elder statesman of the Senate learned he had brain cancer and eventually died.Planning his funeral, Mr. McCain made it clear that the president would not be welcome, leaving Mr. Trump to fume when his two immediate predecessors, Barack Obama and George W. Bush, eulogized Mr. McCain in a service at Washington National Cathedral. The president’s response was to stall on issuing any proclamation of praise, or ordering flags to be flown at half-staff to commemorate the senator’s death.His posthumous attacks have been cheered at the president’s Make America Great rallies. But at the army tank plant in Lima, where Mr. Trump said a third of the work force is made up of veterans, the denunciations drew no cheers. And they once again resulted in rare criticism from Mr. Trump’s own party.On Wednesday, Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia, called out the president’s string of recent comments about Mr. McCain.“It’s deplorable what he said,” Mr. Isakson said in an interview with Georgia Public Broadcasting’s “Political Rewind” radio show, adding, “It will be deplorable seven months from now if he says it again, and I will continue to speak out.”He joined Senator Mitt Romney, Republican of Utah, who had criticized the president on Tuesday. “I can’t understand why the President would, once again, disparage a man as exemplary as my friend John McCain: heroic, courageous, patriotic, honorable, self-effacing, self-sacrificing, empathetic, and driven by duty to family, country, and God,” Mr. Romney wrote on Twitter.Other Republicans, like Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, however, were more muted in responding to Mr. Trump’s latest attacks, choosing to emphasize their support for Mr. McCain rather than confront the president.But at least one Democratic presidential candidate used the moment to demand change in the White House.“This Vietnam vet was brought to tears when hearing the stories of the President going after John McCain this week, as well as the lack of focus on mental health for kids in this country,” Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, wrote on Twitter, with a picture of her embracing a veteran.Mr. McCain’s family, meanwhile, responded in his stead.“This is a new bizarre low,” Mr. McCain’s daughter, Meghan McCain, said on “The View” on Wednesday. “I will say attacking someone who isn’t here is a bizarre low. My dad’s not here, but I’m sure as hell here.”She added: “I think if I had told my dad, ‘Seven months after you’re dead, you’re going to be dominating the news and all over Twitter,’ he would think it’s hilarious that our president was so jealous of him that he was dominating the news cycle in death as well.”Mr. McCain’s widow, Cindy McCain, for her part, shared on Twitter a hateful message she received after Mr. Trump’s most recent attacks, in which the sender wished that Ms. McCain’s daughter “chokes to death.”Mark Salter, Mr. McCain’s closest political adviser and a harsh critic of the president, said all of Mr. Trump’s personal attacks against critics were of a piece.“The problem isn’t Trump’s disrespect to John and his family — it’s Trump,” he said. “He’s unfit for the office, and most members of Congress know he is. I hope this latest evidence of that convinces more people that he can’t be ignored.”Maggie Haberman reported from Lima, and Annie Karni and Michael Tackett from Washington.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jennifer MedinaSAN DIEGO — With a mother and her three children facing deportation, the immigration judge wanted to make sure the woman understood the charges against her. But even with the help of an interpreter speaking in Q’anjob’al, a Mayan language, Magdalena Lucas Antonio de Pascual appeared to comprehend little.“What language do you speak?” Judge Philip S. Law asked.“The reason why I left my country?” she replied through the translator.“I came across the border illegally because I needed to,” she later told the judge.“I am going to ignore what you just told me, because that’s not what I asked you,” he said. “I am trying to explain the process and your rights.”Throughout the 50-minute hearing, the misunderstandings kept coming.Ms. Antonio de Pascual is one of many migrants coming into the United States from remote areas of Central America who only speak indigenous languages. An increase in the number of these migrants is adding to delays in a court system that is already overwhelmed by a backlog of more than 800,000 cases. Now the courts do not have enough interpreters to serve them, pushing the system to its limits, many lawyers, interpreters and advocates say.The number of pending immigration cases has grown by nearly 50 percent under President Trump, what many lawyers and advocates say is a crisis.United States immigration officials provide interpreters in as many as 350 languages over all, including Mandarin, Creole, Punjabi, Arabic and Russian. But Mam, K’iche’ and Q’anjob’al — all indigenous to Guatemala — have each become one of the 25 most common languages spoken in immigration court in the past few years.In San Diego, a Q’anjob’al speaker had her asylum hearing pushed back for more than a year because no interpreters were available. In another case, a man whose primary language is Mam was unable to explain that his family had been killed in his Guatemalan town, which could be a basis for asylum, his lawyer said. The problems have seeped into the criminal courts as well: In the case of one man accused of a misdemeanor battery, the court interpreter, who was speaking in Ixil, did not ask him if he was competent to stand trial, as the judge instructed, but instead told him to “pray to God,” according to a complaint filed in Wisconsin state court.Ashley Tabaddor, an immigration judge in Los Angeles and the president of the National Association of Immigration Judges, said the lack of interpreters was contributing to even more delays.“It’s a colossal waste of our time to now have to reorganize hundreds of thousands of cases to deal with language issues and then there’s no interpreter,” Ms. Tabaddor said.The small number of interpreters who do have a basic grasp of indigenous languages are still often ill-equipped to help — they must explain legal terms that are difficult to comprehend in any language and there are significant differences between regional dialects.With migrants who cannot understand or be understood, lawyers and immigration experts say, there is no way to ensure fairness in court.“We have an entire infrastructure set up where the default language is Spanish, but there are thousands of people coming to the southern border who can’t communicate that way — and they basically become invisible,” said Blake Gentry, a researcher who estimates that as many as a third of the migrants crossing the border through Arizona do not speak Spanish.Immigration courts across the country have seen a steady rise in speakers of indigenous Guatemalan languages in the last five years, according to the Justice Department’s Executive Office for Immigration Review, which oversees the court. And they are only the most recent additions to the list, which for several years has routinely included Zapotec, Mixtec, Ixil and Popti, languages from southern Mexico and Central America.“The lack of interpretation for indigenous people has been a problem for a long time,” said Odilia Romero, a Zapotec interpreter who has been an activist with the Binational Front of Indigenous Organizations for the last 20 years. “But what we see now is something entirely different: We have entire populations showing up with languages that we have not seen in the United States before.“The court may provide an interpreter so they have fulfilled the requirement, but that doesn’t mean there is any real understanding,” she said.Although many immigration courts have Spanish interpreters on staff, they rely on private contractors for interpreters of indigenous languages. Nearly all in-person interpreters come from one Virginia-based company, SOS International, which has an $80 million contract with the federal government.The government could not say how many interpreters are available in specific languages and relies on SOS International, which did not respond to multiple inquiries. A spokeswoman for the Executive Office of Immigration Review said the court tries to accommodate all non-English speakers and constantly monitors the cases nationally to meet new needs.But getting interpreters to court is hardly a given: With so few of them in such high demand, they have to be arranged weeks or even months in advance. Judges are often forced to rely on interpreters by phone, making it difficult to hear and impossible to understand body language. And interpreter shortages are plaguing courts across the country, including New York and Chicago.Even when interpreters are in court, it is routinely difficult to explain legal concepts to the migrants, particularly to the vast majority who do not have a lawyer. And because many indigenous interpreters do not speak English, they must use “relay” interpretation — with the judge’s English first being translated into Spanish before being translated to the indigenous language.In many cases, said Ms. Tabaddor, the immigration judge, migrants who speak only rudimentary Spanish try to get by in that language, sometimes out of shame or a belief that Spanish will help them convince United States officials that they should be allowed to stay.The problem extends to lawyers, who often can’t speak to their clients. Carmen Chavez, the executive director of the Casa Cornelia Law Center, a nonprofit immigration legal service in San Diego that helps match clients with interpreters, said that of the more than 2,000 cases the group handled last year, roughly a quarter of migrants from Latin America did not speak Spanish.“It is constantly difficult to find someone who is qualified to interpret for these cases,” she said.Even among interpreters certified to work in the courts, there is little oversight, and advocates worry whether interpreters and those who hire them are competent.Since immigrating to Los Angeles from Guatemala in the 1990s, Policarpo Chaj has worked as a K’iche’ interpreter for lawyers, doctors and other businesses. Mr. Chaj said he has repeatedly heard of lawyers trying to hire anyone they meet who speaks K’iche’ and Spanish.“Speaking a language is not the only thing that makes you qualified to be an interpreter,” he said. “You have to understand the law, you have know how to write, you have to know how to ask something concrete. You are dealing with people’s rights, it is your moral responsibility to make sure they understand exactly what the judge is saying.”It’s possible for migrants to not encounter a single person who speaks their language on their path through the immigration system, making it all but impossible to give officials information. While most agents working along the Mexican border and in detention centers speak at least basic Spanish, few know any indigenous languages. Officers often grow frustrated and accuse these migrants of being uncooperative, leaving them even more confused, lawyers and advocates say.Children who do not speak Spanish are especially isolated, shelter workers say. They are left without the ability to speak with counselors and are more likely to act out, then are punished or medicated. Parents who only speak an indigenous language often cannot communicate that they have been separated from their children.Even migrants with lawyers are often forced to depend on their bilingual children for further help.In court, Ms. Antonio de Pascual struggled to explain her situation through the court interpreter. The family arrived last summer, meeting her husband who has lived in the San Diego area for several years. She enrolled each of her children in school, and her 8-year-old daughter refused to miss class for the court hearing. Ms. Antonio de Pascual, who is illiterate, said she could not remember what forms she signed or questions she answered when she spoke to United States officials near the border last year.Ms. Antonio de Pascual’s initial hearing had already been postponed because no interpreter was available. As this recent one ended, she asked the judge to give her six months to save money for a lawyer. Saying that would be too much time, the judge said he wanted her back in court in June and expected her to begin looking for a lawyer immediately.When she was dismissed, her 12-year-old son, who speaks limited Spanish and Q’anjob’al, took the stack of court documents, placing them inside his small green backpack. He said he planned to spend the afternoon calling the phone numbers listed for pro bono lawyers who might take their case.Miriam Jordan contributed reporting.Advertisement