AdvertisementSupported byA proposal in New York could extend the right to thousands and make the roads safer.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.As long as Washington remains unable to deliver comprehensive immigration reform, states will be left to decide how to deal with the millions of undocumented immigrants who are a part of their communities and the work force.Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York and the now Democratic-led State Legislature recently agreed to let undocumented immigrants apply for state financial aid to attend college, tapping a pool of talent and giving more young people a chance to fully participate in American life. There are an estimated 725,000 undocumented immigrants in New York State, making up more than 5 percent of the labor force in 2016, according to the Pew Research Center. They pay $1.1 billion in state and local taxes each year, the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy estimates.Almost 250,000 of them live in the suburbs and upstate, where people rely on cars to get to work and school. That’s why the governor and legislative leaders have proposed legislation to let undocumented immigrants receive driver’s licenses, as a dozen states and the District of Columbia do.Under legislation pending in Albany, applicants would no longer be required to show proof they are in the country legally. They could use foreign passports to establish their identity and obtain a standard driver’s license, once, of course, they pass the same tests as everyone else.Though researchers say it is hard to isolate a single factor when studying road safety, law enforcement officials have said that knowing who is on the road is a clear benefit. William Bratton — who served as police commissioner in both Los Angeles and New York — has supported such measures, saying they would reduce the number of hit-and-runs, increase the number of insured motorists and, by having identification on record, help fight crime and terrorism.One 2017 study found hit-and-run accidents in California decreased by an average of 7 percent to 10 percent after undocumented immigrants were allowed to get driver’s licenses. After New Mexico approved similar legislation, the percentage of uninsured drivers fell to 9.1 percent in 2011 from 33 percent in 2002.Issuing licenses to undocumented immigrants would also bring the state more revenue. The Fiscal Policy Institute estimates New York could see about $26 million in fees for license applications and car registration, and the gasoline tax. Opponents say the state should not make it easier for immigrants who are here illegally to work jobs they are not supposed to have. But the bill would reflect reality: Undocumented immigrants are already driving on the state’s roads.New York once allowed undocumented residents to drive. But after the Sept. 11 attacks, Gov. George Pataki, citing the threat of terrorist infiltration, issued an executive order requiring applicants to prove their legal status before obtaining licenses. In 2007, Gov. Eliot Spitzer tried to restore these rights but backed off in the face of intense political blowback.Along with Mr. Cuomo, the Assembly speaker, Carl Heastie, and the Senate majority leader, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, have signaled support. But Ms. Stewart-Cousins may have a tough time persuading Democrats from Long Island, where anti-immigrant sentiment can be strong.For those who have to work and raise their families in the shadows as they provide cheap labor for contractors, restaurants, farms and factories, a driver’s license could change their lives.Aldo, a 40-year-old Mexican working illegally in construction and the food industry, lives with his wife and young son on Staten Island’s South Shore, far from public transportation. It’s an area the couple chose because the schools are good and it’s affordable. But he said driving in the area increases his chances of interacting with law enforcement. He stands out in a neighborhood where most residents are white, and there are few other immigrants. “They know you don’t have a license,” he said of the police, “and you’re fearful.”Keeping people like Aldo fearful doesn’t make anyone else safer. Giving them the right to have a driver’s license makes sense.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — President Donald Trump said on Friday he was considering sending illegal immigrants in the country to so-called sanctuary cities, prompting U.S. mayors to accept such an offer as the battle over border security raged.Frustrated by rising numbers of undocumented immigrants arriving at the southern border and a failure to get Congress to fully fund a U.S.-Mexico border wall, Trump taunted Democrats by dangling the possibility of an influx of illegal immigrants into their communities."Due to the fact that Democrats are unwilling to change our very dangerous immigration laws, we are indeed, as reported, giving strong considerations to placing Illegal Immigrants in Sanctuary Cities only," Trump wrote on Twitter.Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney responded in a statement: "While the Trump administration's proposal shows their disdain to basic human dignity, the City (Philadelphia) would be prepared to welcome these immigrants just as we have embraced our immigrant communities for decades."In February, a federal appeals court said the Trump administration could not terminate federal grants to Philadelphia for its refusal to cooperate with immigration agents seeking to deport immigrants. In Chicago, Mayor Rahm Emanuel said in a statement "We would welcome these migrants with open arms, just as we welcomed Syrian refugees, just as we welcomed Puerto Ricans displaced by Hurricane Maria and just as we welcome Rohingya refugees fleeing genocide in Myanmar." Sanctuary cities are local jurisdictions that generally give undocumented immigrants safe harbour by refusing to use their resources to help enforce federal immigration laws that could lead to deportations.Those localities argue that it is not their responsibility to get involved in federal enforcement and that doing so could hinder policing efforts within communities. The Washington Post first reported on Thursday that the White House has been considering a plan for transporting immigrants in detention and releasing them into sanctuary cities that are Democratic strongholds.The newspaper reported there was resistance from some high-level Department of Homeland Security officials concerned about several aspects of such a plan, including the potential costs.Nevertheless, Trump, speaking to reporters at the White House on Friday, said of sanctuary cities, "We can give them an unlimited supply" of immigrants.White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said these would be "illegal aliens that are already set for release," which likely would include families with children. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi's hometown of San Francisco is another sanctuary city.In remarks to reporters on Friday, Pelosi, a Democrat, said she was not aware of the newspaper report. But she added, "it's just another notion that is unworthy of the presidency of the United States and disrespectful of the challenges that we face, as a country, as a people, to address who we are, a nation of immigrants."Pelosi was in Leesburg, Virginia, where House Democrats were wrapping up a three-day retreat.One immigration expert, who asked not to be identified, noted that undocumented immigrants in federal custody could be at one of several stages of the adjudication process and that Trump likely has the power to have them sent to different jurisdictions from where they are being held.But the source added, "This is a stunt. It doesn't enhance the efficiency of the process."Trump's challenge to Democrats came one day after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican like Trump, told reporters that he wanted to launch bipartisan negotiations to seek solutions to the nation's immigration woes.In March alone, 103,492 undocumented immigrants have been taken into custody along the southern border or turned away. Many of them are from El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala and are seeking asylum in the United States away from high levels of violent crime and illegal drugs at home. (Reporting by Mohammad Zargham and Richard Cowan in Washington and Susan Cornwell in Leesburg, Virginia; editing by Richard Chang and James Dalgleish)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressEL PASO, Texas — Two Indian men who were force-fed during a hunger strike inside a Texas immigration detention center are out of government custody.U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman Leticia Zamarripa confirmed Thursday that Jasvir Singh and Rajandeep Singh were released on bond from the El Paso Processing Center.After The Associated Press revealed ICE was force-feeding nine immigrant detainees through nasal tubes in January, the facility stopped the controversial practice under public pressure. The United Nations human rights office said in February that the force-feeding of immigrant hunger strikers there could violate the U.N. Convention Against Torture.Immigration judges initially ordered that both men be deported. Their uncle Amrit Singh said they will appeal their immigration cases and join family in California. One man's attorney said an appeal already was filed.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBoth involve a journey. And both are under assault by this administration.By Jennifer Finney BoylanContributing Opinion Writer Last week, a 9-year-old American citizen, Julia Isabel Amparo Medina, was detained at the Mexican border for 30 hours. Although she had made the trip every school day from her home in Tijuana, Mexico, to school in California, authorities claimed they could not identify her.Back in January, two British women angrily accosted the human rights activist Sarah McBride after a conference that had brought together members of Congress and the parents of transgender youth. The women, members of a group that denies the humanity of transgender people, referred to Ms. McBride with male pronouns and accused her of championing rape and the erasure of lesbians.On the surface, it might seem as if the detention of Julia and the cruelty of transphobes is unrelated. But both hatreds, in fact, rise from the same dark spring.“People who have transitioned,” those anti-trans activists seemed to suggest, “aren’t sending their best. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.”Actually, unless I missed something, they didn’t say a word about people like Sarah McBride and me being good people. Mostly they implied, as the president once said of undocumented immigrants, that we’re not people. That we’re animals.Comparing the trans experience to those of other marginalized groups is awkward, and not least because gender and race and poverty have different, if entwined histories. We conflate them at our peril.Still, the narrative of migration can provide a helpful metaphor for the lives of some trans folks. This isn’t true for all of us, to be sure. But for someone who transitioned midlife, like me, it works pretty well.I’m 60 years old now. I was 40 when I set out on the dangerous crossing that led from the place where I was born to these green fields of womanhood.From my earliest memory, the old country — so to speak — felt like a foreign place; for me it was, at least at times, a place of hunger. I knew that if I stayed in the country where I was born — dear old BoyLand — I would never survive. And so I set out for this new land, the place I’d been dreaming of, one way or another, since I was 6 years old. In 2000, when I came out, I finally got my green card.On the whole, my life has been lucky and blessed. But womanhood has also come with new threats. One night, outside a bar in Waterville, Me., a would-be suitor grabbed me roughly by the wrist and said, “I tell you what, Jenny, we can do this the easy way, or we can do this the hard way.” (I escaped from him, but I think about that night sometimes, and what might have happened if I had not.)I can assure you that no one transitions from male to female to get a better deal. And yet, even at its harshest, the world I live in now feels like the one for which God made me.Has my experience of womanhood been identical to that of other women my age? Of course not. I speak, sometimes, with a hint of a foreign accent, a vestigial trace of the country where I was born.As Zadie Smith writes in her novel “White Teeth,” “This is the other thing about immigrants (’fugees, émigrés, travelers): They cannot escape their history any more than you yourself can lose your shadow.”I’m all too aware of the way my past informs my present, and there are plenty of times when I long to have lived a life unburdened by the past.And yet, just because I began my life somewhere else, I am no less a citizen of the country I have made my own. My womanhood is not a matter for debate. What it is, above all, is a fact. It is, however, a fact that cannot possibly be understood without imagination.When members of the present administration claim that people like me should be “erased,” are they not saying, in so many words, “Build that wall”? Are they not echoing the cries of every xenophobic bigot throughout history in furiously demanding that I Go Back Where I Came From?I’m not going back. I’m staying here, in the land I struggled so hard to reach. It is here, as a woman, that I’ve built a home. Is where I began my days really so much more important than where I wound up?There are all kinds of women in this world: Amelia Earhart and Aretha Franklin; Sonia Sotomayor and Kathy Griffin; Bonnie Raitt and Toni Morrison.If there is room in this world for all these women, surely there might be some room for me.What the world needs now is not more walls — to keep out the strange, the different, the new. What the world needs now is not hatred — of men, of women, of anyone in between.What the world needs now is bridges: across rivers, across genders, across every last border that divides us, one soul from another.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Jennifer Finney Boylan, a contributing opinion writer, is a professor of English at Barnard College and the author of the novel “Long Black Veil.”  @JennyBoylan AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The Trump administration and Republicans in the U.S. Congress, unable to fully fund a U.S.-Mexico border wall, are refocusing their immigration agenda on a proposal for simpler, faster deportations of undocumented children and families from Central America.In an effort that is sure to encounter resistance from Democrats, Republicans want to make deporting people from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras as swift and easy as it already is to deport undocumented people from Mexico or Canada, according to lawmakers and immigrant advocates.Doing so would mean changing U.S. asylum law in a profound way, according to immigrant advocates, who warned the Republican plan could result in persecuted children being sent back to their dangerous Central American homelands.On its own, such a deportation crackdown would likely stumble in Congress due to Democratic opposition, but it might advance if it were paired with another measure that Democrats favor, said Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham, a Republican, on Wednesday."I have to give them something they want," Graham said in an interview, referring to the Democrats.He said he would move quickly on legislation once the Department of Homeland Security tells him exactly what it wants, "and then let the negotiations begin."Any deportation crackdown would mark President Donald Trump's latest attempt to expel undocumented Central American immigrants, who are arriving at the U.S. border in rising numbers, and to discourage others from coming to United States.On Wednesday, Trump tweeted: "Congress must get together and immediately eliminate the loopholes at the Border! If no action, Border, or large sections of Border, will close. This is a National Emergency!"'LOOPHOLES'One of the "loopholes" he referred to has to do with asylum. At present, undocumented immigrants, including children unaccompanied by parents, can seek U.S. asylum if they come from countries whose governments cannot protect them from persecution.That standard applies to Central Americans, but it is not as stringent for Mexicans and Canadians, who can quickly and easily be deported by U.S. officials.The Trump administration wants to align treatment of Central Americans seeking asylum with that of Canadians and Mexicans.That would "allow the deportation of unaccompanied children before they've had a fair chance to claim protection," Wendy Young, president of Kids in Need of Defense, a group that advocates for immigrant children, told a conference call with reporters.Young said the Republican approach could result in youths being sent back to their homelands, which they would likely only flee again.But Senate Homeland Security Committee Chairman Ron Johnson, also a Republican, said in a brief interview: "What we need to do is we need to change our laws that are incentivizing and rewarding unaccompanied children and family units coming to this country because once they're here, they stay."Last Thursday, in a letter to Congress, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said, "Most immediately, we need the authority to treat all arriving migrant children equally."She added that she would soon submit legislation to Congress to carry this out. On Friday, without giving details, she issued a statement that said, "DHS will need emergency legislative action to restore order" on the border with Mexico.No legislation has been publicly unveiled by Republicans, whose clout in Congress is limited now that Democrats control the House of Representatives and retain enough votes in the Senate to block most legislation.Many of Trump's fellow Republicans have spoken out against his recent threats to close the Mexican border and his announcement last weekend of plans to terminate U.S. aid to El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.At the same time, the president's declaration of a national emergency at the southern border in order to help seize funds to build a wall to repel immigrants is tied up in federal courts.Trump has repeatedly threatened to close the border to stem what he calls a tide of illegal immigration. On Friday, he said he would close the border this week unless Mexico took steps to stop illegal migration. (Additional reporting by David Alexander, Jeff Mason, Doina Chiacu and Alexandra Alper; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Julia JacobsAn Illinois woman is facing federal charges of forced labor after the F.B.I. raided her home and discovered 33 Guatemalan immigrants, some of whom were made to work and pay thousands of dollars as a debt for helping them stay in the United States, the authorities said this week.The F.B.I. searched the home of the woman, Concepcion Malinek, in Cicero, Ill., a Chicago suburb, on Tuesday morning after interviewing immigrants who described an abusive living situation in which Ms. Malinek exerted control over their every move, according to a criminal complaint. The authorities said they found 19 adults and 14 children, as well as documents apparently outlining the immigrants’ debts to Ms. Malinek, 49.The immigrants who spoke with the F.B.I. said that Ms. Malinek, who is a dual citizen of the United States and Guatemala, either helped pay for their plane ticket to Chicago or allowed them to tell immigration authorities that they would be staying at her house after they crossed the United States-Mexico border, according to the complaint. When the immigrants arrived to Ms. Malinek’s home, it said, she told them that they owed her thousands of dollars for her assistance.Some of the immigrants, who were not named in the complaint, told the F.B.I. that Ms. Malinek charged them for rent, child care and transportation to a factory where she arranged for them to work, according to the complaint. One man said he slept in the basement of Ms. Malinek’s home and that she did not allow them to leave the basement unless they received her permission. The man and his 15-year-old daughter, who lived on the ground floor, were allowed to see each other only for limited periods of time, the complaint said.The authorities also found fraudulent permanent resident cards for the father and daughter in the house, the complaint said. The 15-year-old daughter, who worked at the factory with the other immigrants, had a fake permanent resident card that said she was in her late 20sThe authorities said they learned of the alleged forced-labor scheme through a tip from someone who worked with the immigrants at the factory in Romeoville, Ill., about 25 miles southwest of Cicero. The immigrants told the authorities that Ms. Malinek often threatened them with deportation if they told anyone about their living situation.According to the complaint, one of the immigrants said that Ms. Malinek had told them, “Immigration knows how many people live in this house,” and that “you guys are poor and I have all the money.”Ms. Malinek was charged with two counts of forced labor in reference to two immigrants who say she forced them to work under the threat of serious harm. Each count carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison.On Thursday, United States Magistrate Judge Jeffrey Cole ordered that Ms. Malinek be held without bail, according to court documents.A lawyer for Ms. Malinek did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Friday night.A spokesman for the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois said Ms. Malinek’s husband, who is a Transportation Security Administration agent, is also being investigated. The spokesman would not specify where the 33 Guatemalan immigrants were living after they were recovered from the home but said that some were in protective custody.According to the complaint, one of the immigrants told the authorities that Ms. Malinek called them upstairs from the basement each Thursday to meet with “immigration officials.” The Justice Department spokesman declined to comment on whether these were actual immigration officials.A prosecutor told The Chicago Sun-Times that the immigrants were being held in squalor, with mold, cockroaches and leaking sewage in the house. In court on Thursday, The Chicago Sun-Times reported, Ms. Malinek’s defense lawyer, Raymond Pijon, told the judge that Ms. Malinek believed she was helping the immigrants — some of them her family members — flee Guatemala.“There was a lot of good heart behind that,” Pijon said, according to The Sun-Times, “because she knows what’s happening in Guatemala.”The Justice Department spokesman would not comment on whether the immigrants were in the country illegally or not, but in the complaint, one of the immigrants told the F.B.I. that some people living in the house were seeking political asylum.Follow Julia Jacobs on Twitter: @juliarebeccaj.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCHICAGO — Democratic lawmakers in Illinois want to expand a statewide embargo on private prisons to include detention centers with federal contracts to hold immigrants facing deportation.The proposed measure comes in response to a vote by community leaders that approved a plan for a privately run immigration detention center in the village of Dwight, about 70 miles (110 kilometers) southwest of Chicago.The Illinois House passed the proposed revision to the Private Correctional Facility Moratorium Act Wednesday, the Chicago Tribune reported. The act would forbid local government from contracting with a private provider for "community correctional supervision."U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is accepting bids for contracts to run detention facilities that can hold 1,000 immigrants within 80 miles (130 kilometers) of Chicago.State Rep. Kelly Cassidy, of Chicago, filed the bill in February. Cassidy said she hopes it will halt the Dwight plan because "profiting off putting people in cages is morally bankrupt and not something that the state of Illinois should be supporting."The measure also aims to prevent similar facilities from being built elsewhere, said Celina Villanueva, co-sponsor of the bill."My concern isn't just Dwight. My concern is the entire state of Illinois," Villanueva said.Jared Anderson, the Dwight village board president, said officials are watching the progress of the bill and trying to figure out what it would mean for the contract the village has already entered into with Immigration Centers of America, the Virginia-based company behind the immigration detention center plan."We are not going to make a comment on anything until the state does what it wants to do," Anderson noted.John Truscott, a spokesman for Immigration Centers of American, said the company is moving ahead with efforts to secure a federal contract to operate in Illinois, and that the language of the bill will determine whether it can build the Dwight facility."We will continue making progress until it's just not feasible or we don't get awarded the facility on the federal level," Truscott said.An ICE official declined to comment.___Information from: Chicago Tribune, http://www.chicagotribune.comAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON/SAN FRANCISCO — When Arturo Balbino, a Texas construction worker, walked into his visa interview at the American consulate in the northern Mexican border town of Ciudad Juarez in March, he wasn't nervous. He felt good.Balbino, a 33-year-old Mexican national who had entered the United States illegally 14 years ago, thought he had a strong case for a spousal visa: a wife and children who are U.S. citizens, a father-in-law who had pledged in an affidavit to financially support him if necessary, and a letter from his employer guaranteeing him an $18-per-hour job upon his return.When he went for the interview, he was at the final step of legalizing his status, which would, he hoped, pave the way for a more stable life for himself and his family.Instead, the consular officer denied his application on the grounds that he could become a drain on U.S. taxpayers by requiring government financial assistance, according to documents reviewed by Reuters.That decision stranded Balbino in Mexico indefinitely and upended his family’s life.More and more aspiring immigrants – especially Mexicans – are being denied visas based on determinations by the U.S. State Department that they might become "public charges," dependent on the government for support, according to official data and interviews with attorneys, immigrants and their family members.Lawyers for some immigrants say consular officers are denying visas even when applicants fulfill legal requirements to prove they will be financially independent.The refusals, capping an often complex and lengthy application process, can trap people for months or longer outside the United States, separated from American spouses and children, as they renew their efforts to legally return. Some may never be able to go back.One reason for the rise in refusals are little-known changes last year in the State Department's foreign affairs manual that gave diplomats wider discretion in deciding visa denials on public-charge grounds.The changes occurred in January 2018 as the Department of Homeland Security was preparing a separate, highly controversial proposal to restrict immigration on public-charge grounds. The regulation, officially proposed in October, received more than 200,000 public comments, which will likely take months longer to fully evaluate.Some critics say the State Department is using a back door, tightening immigration policy without going through a similarly high-profile rulemaking process."The State Department is trying to bypass public comment and implement changes to public-charge (policy) all on its own," said Charles Wheeler, an attorney with the Catholic Legal Immigration Network. "These changes are already having a terrible effect on people."The State Department declined to comment, citing pending litigation over the manual changes.In the lawsuit in a Maryland federal court, the government rejected accusations that the manual changes are motivated by any antipathy toward immigrants and argued that such “guidance” is not subject to court review or laws requiring public comment.The guidance, government lawyers wrote in a February court filing, is neutral and implements a long-standing U.S. law meant to exclude immigrants who are likely to become burdens on the United States.The government acknowledged in the filing that the guidance "could potentially lead" to more frequent public-charge denials.The changes to the manual are not the only reason for the increase in refusals of immigrant visa applications on public-charge grounds. Those have risen since 2015, when fewer than 900 were issued, according to government data.But after the manual changes in January 2018, the refusals shot up. In the 2018 fiscal year, which ended in September, nearly 13,500 immigrant visa applications were refused on public-charge grounds - quadruple the number in the previous fiscal year and the highest total since 2004.FEWER VISAS FOR MEXICANSAlthough the State Department does not release visa refusal data by nationality or consulate, immigration lawyers said public-charge enforcement is particularly rigorous at the U.S. consulate in Ciudad Juarez, where all Mexican immigrant visa applications are processed.Mexicans received 11 percent fewer immigrant visas in fiscal year 2018 compared to 2017. That compares to a 4.6 percent overall decline in such visas to people of all nationalities during that period.Previously, the State Department typically considered an "affidavit of support," signed by an American citizen or permanent resident offering to act as a sponsor of the immigrant, sufficient evidence that the person would not become a government burden, immigration lawyers said.To qualify as a sponsor, a person must make at least 125 percent of the U.S. poverty level for that person’s household size. According to the affidavit from Balbino's father-in-law, seen by Reuters, he made almost $90,000 a year – tens of thousands of dollars more than the government requires for a household of his size.Now, according to the manual, the affidavit is just one factor among many. Consular officers are also now allowed to consider past or current use of public benefits – including health and nutrition services. And that includes use by an immigrant's family, even if they are citizens. Under the previous version of the manual, consular officials were not permitted to consider the use of non-cash benefits.Balbino's children's use of the Medicaid program for low-income households and food stamps was an issue that came up in his visa interview, along with questions about his father-in-law's commitment to supporting him, Balbino said. TRAPPED IN MEXICOPublic-charge denials can be particularly devastating for people like Balbino, who entered the United States illegally, built lives and have an opportunity to legalize their status through marriage.It’s a complex process, but one many immigrants like Balbino are willing to complete. U.S. law requires people who have been present in the United States illegally for longer than six months to leave and remain abroad for several years before attempting to re-enter.But visa applicants can ask for waivers that allow them to return more quickly. Balbino obtained such a waiver in 2017. Once a visa is refused on public-charge grounds, however, such waivers are revoked, trapping the person outside the country for months or years.With Balbino's waiver now revoked, his wife, Darlene, is considering moving with her children to Balbino’s hometown in the Mexican state of Guanajuato. She doesn't work and is struggling to pay the bills."We can't make it on our own any more," she said. Because the family is so strapped, two of the five children, aged 6 and 10, have already been sent to live with Balbino - a move they are finding difficult. “They’ve spent their whole life in the United States," Balbino said in an interview. "They don't speak much Spanish."The 6-year-old boy had been receiving therapy for a speech impediment at his Texas school, but after the move to Mexico his speech has started to regress, said Darlene Balbino, who is still in Texas with her two older daughters and a toddler while she figures out what to do next.Her husband is contemplating the possibility that the family will be apart for years.“At times I want to think that everything will be okay and I’ll be able to be with my family again,” Arturo Balbino said. “It’s very difficult to think that I won’t be able to return to watch my children grow up." (Reporting by Yeganeh Torbati in Washington and Kristina Cooke in San Francisco; Editing by Julie Marquis and Ross Colvin)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFact-Check President Trump cited an array of statistics to paint a portrait of widespread criminal conduct by undocumented immigrants. Here’s the context behind them. By Linda QiuWhat WAS Said23% of Federal inmates are illegal immigrants. Border arrests are up 240%. In the Great State of Texas, between 2011 & 2018, there were a total of 292,000 crimes by illegal aliens, 539 murders, 32,000 assaults, 3,426 sexual assaults and 3000 weapons charges. Democrats come back!Twenty-two days into the longest government shutdown ever, President Trump continued to press his case for a border wall. His tweet on Saturday was crammed with statistics that were either exaggerated or omitted important context. Immigrant prison populationMr. Trump’s figure for the percentage of unauthorized immigrants in federal prisons is exaggerated.Out of the Bureau of Prisons’ total inmate population of 183,058 in the first quarter of the 2018 fiscal year, 21 percent were immigrants, both legal and undocumented, according to a government report. At least 13 percent of the total population, or 23,826 inmates, were in the country unlawfully. The immigration status of another 11,698 inmates was under investigation, while 2,608 inmates were lawful immigrants or had received relief from deportation.The most common crimes committed by these immigrants were drug-related offenses (46 percent) and immigration offenses (29 percent). It’s worth noting, too, that about half of the arrests made by the federal government are for immigration-related offenses, perhaps explaining the high proportion of immigrants in federal prisons. The report acknowledges that it does not include data from state and local prisons, which house 90 percent of all inmates in the United States.Border arrestsMr. Trump did not give a time frame for his 240 percent figure, nor did he specify what the number referred to, which may give the misleading impression that border crossings overall have increased threefold. The figure instead refers to a surge in families attempting to cross at the southwest border. The number of family units apprehended at the border more than tripled from 8,120 in December 2017 to 27,518 in December 2018, overwhelming immigration officials and creating a new humanitarian crisis.Overall, illegal border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades, and in the 2017 fiscal year, border crossing apprehensions were at their lowest point since 1971. In the 2018 fiscal year, however, annual apprehensions did increase by 30 percent from the previous fiscal year.Immigrant criminals in TexasMr. Trump’s figures are accurate, but they need context. The Texas Department of Public Safety did report that the 186,000 unauthorized immigrants booked into local jails from 2011 to 2018 faced 292,000 charges.The caveats: These offenses did not necessarily occur during that eight-year time frame. More than half of these charges were uncategorized. And the charges Mr. Trump singled out did not always result in convictions (238 for homicide, 13,559 for assault, 1,689 for sexual assault and 1,280 for weapons).For comparison, data from the Texas Department of Public Safety shows that some 7.5 million arrests were made from 2010 to 2017 (data for 2018 was not yet available), including 6,161 for murder, 177,000 for aggravated assault, 14,000 for rape and nearly 89,000 for weapons charges. A 2018 study from the libertarian Cato Institute found that in Texas, conviction and arrest rates for illegal immigrants were lower than those for native-born Americans for most crimes.An earlier version of this article misstated the data included in a government report on immigrants in prison. The report does not include data from state and local prisons.Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Tuesday adopted a strict interpretation of a federal immigration law, saying it required the detention of immigrants facing deportation without the possibility of bail if they had committed crimes, including minor ones, no matter how long ago they had been released from criminal custody.The vote was 5 to 4, with the court’s more conservative justices in the majority. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., writing for the majority, said the plain language of a federal law required the result.Justice Stephen G. Breyer summarized his dissent from the bench, a sign of profound disagreement. He said the majority had violated the nation’s basic values.“The greater importance of the case,” he said, “lies in the power that the majority’s interpretation grants the government. It is a power to detain persons who committed a minor crime many years before. And it is a power to hold those persons, perhaps for many months, without an opportunity to obtain bail.”Justice Alito said the law may be subject to constitutional challenges in individual cases, a subject that was not before the justices. It was clear, he wrote, that Congress had required the secretary of Homeland Security to take into custody immigrants released from criminal custody even if years had passed in the meantime.“An official’s crucial duties are better carried out late than never,” Justice Alito wrote.Cecillia Wang, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, which represented the immigrants challenging the law, said the decision was part of a worrisome trend.“For two terms in a row now,” she said, “the Supreme Court has endorsed the most extreme interpretation of immigration detention statutes, allowing mass incarceration of people without any hearing, simply because they are defending themselves against a deportation charge.”The case concerned a law, enacted in 1996, which included a contested phrase. It said federal authorities “shall take into custody any alien” convicted of certain crimes, some serious and some minor, “when the alien is released.” The key word was “when.”Immigrants’ rights advocates said the law required prompt detention. Lawyers for the federal government said immigrants convicted of crimes may be detained years after their release.The difference matters, for hundreds and perhaps thousands of immigrants, because people detained under the law are not entitled to a bail hearing to determine whether they are dangerous or pose a flight risk.The plaintiffs included people who entered the country illegally, tourists or students who overstayed their visas and lawful permanent residents. Among them were immigrants who arrived in the United States legally as infants, committed minor crimes like possessing marijuana and were detained years after completing their sentences.The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, concluded that the law requires mandatory detention only if the federal authorities take immigrants into custody soon after they are released.“Because Congress’s use of the word ‘when’ conveys immediacy,” Jacqueline H. Nguyen wrote for a unanimous three-judge panel, “we conclude that the immigration detention must occur promptly upon the aliens’ release from criminal custody.”Justice Alito wrote that such a strict deadline could allow local authorities opposed to federal immigration policy to frustrate the goals of the federal law.“State and local officials sometimes rebuff the government’s request that they give notice when a criminal alien will be released,” he wrote. He cited statistics indicating that there were tens of thousand of such refusals in 48 states from January 2014 to September 2016.“Under these circumstances, it is hard to believe that Congress made the secretary’s mandatory-detention authority vanish at the stroke of midnight after an alien’s release,” he wrote.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Clarence Thomas, Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh joined all or most of the majority opinion.In a concurring opinion, Justice Kavanaugh wrote that the question before the court was a narrow one.He said it was beyond dispute that the government can deport immigrants convicted of some crimes and that it can detain them during deportation proceedings.The question the court decided, he wrote, was merely whether “the executive branch’s mandatory duty to detain a particular noncitizen when the noncitizen is released from criminal custody remains mandatory if the executive branch fails to immediately detain the noncitizen when the noncitizen is released from criminal custody.”It would be odd, he wrote, for that requirement to change, for example, “if the executive branch fails to immediately detain the noncitizen because of resource constraints or because the executive branch cannot immediately locate and apprehend the individual in question.”In dissent, Justice Breyer wrote that the case was neither narrow nor technical.“Under the government’s view,” he wrote, “the aliens subject to detention without a bail hearing may have been released from criminal custody years earlier, and may have established families and put down roots in a community.”“These aliens,” Justice Breyer wrote, “may then be detained for months, sometimes years, without the possibility of release; they may have been convicted of only minor crimes — for example, minor drug offenses, or crimes of ‘moral turpitude’ such as illegally downloading music or possessing stolen bus transfers; and they sometimes may be innocent spouses or children of a suspect person.”Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan joined the dissent in the case, Nielsen v. Preap, No. 16-1363.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA proposal in New York could extend the right to thousands and make the roads safer.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.As long as Washington remains unable to deliver comprehensive immigration reform, states will be left to decide how to deal with the millions of undocumented immigrants who are a part of their communities and the work force.Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York and the now Democratic-led State Legislature recently agreed to let undocumented immigrants apply for state financial aid to attend college, tapping a pool of talent and giving more young people a chance to fully participate in American life. There are an estimated 725,000 undocumented immigrants in New York State, making up more than 5 percent of the labor force in 2016, according to the Pew Research Center. They pay $1.1 billion in state and local taxes each year, the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy estimates.Almost 250,000 of them live in the suburbs and upstate, where people rely on cars to get to work and school. That’s why the governor and legislative leaders have proposed legislation to let undocumented immigrants receive driver’s licenses, as a dozen states and the District of Columbia do.Under legislation pending in Albany, applicants would no longer be required to show proof they are in the country legally. They could use foreign passports to establish their identity and obtain a standard driver’s license, once, of course, they pass the same tests as everyone else.Though researchers say it is hard to isolate a single factor when studying road safety, law enforcement officials have said that knowing who is on the road is a clear benefit. William Bratton — who served as police commissioner in both Los Angeles and New York — has supported such measures, saying they would reduce the number of hit-and-runs, increase the number of insured motorists and, by having identification on record, help fight crime and terrorism.One 2017 study found hit-and-run accidents in California decreased by an average of 7 percent to 10 percent after undocumented immigrants were allowed to get driver’s licenses. After New Mexico approved similar legislation, the percentage of uninsured drivers fell to 9.1 percent in 2011 from 33 percent in 2002.Issuing licenses to undocumented immigrants would also bring the state more revenue. The Fiscal Policy Institute estimates New York could see about $26 million in fees for license applications and car registration, and the gasoline tax. Opponents say the state should not make it easier for immigrants who are here illegally to work jobs they are not supposed to have. But the bill would reflect reality: Undocumented immigrants are already driving on the state’s roads.New York once allowed undocumented residents to drive. But after the Sept. 11 attacks, Gov. George Pataki, citing the threat of terrorist infiltration, issued an executive order requiring applicants to prove their legal status before obtaining licenses. In 2007, Gov. Eliot Spitzer tried to restore these rights but backed off in the face of intense political blowback.Along with Mr. Cuomo, the Assembly speaker, Carl Heastie, and the Senate majority leader, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, have signaled support. But Ms. Stewart-Cousins may have a tough time persuading Democrats from Long Island, where anti-immigrant sentiment can be strong.For those who have to work and raise their families in the shadows as they provide cheap labor for contractors, restaurants, farms and factories, a driver’s license could change their lives.Aldo, a 40-year-old Mexican working illegally in construction and the food industry, lives with his wife and young son on Staten Island’s South Shore, far from public transportation. It’s an area the couple chose because the schools are good and it’s affordable. But he said driving in the area increases his chances of interacting with law enforcement. He stands out in a neighborhood where most residents are white, and there are few other immigrants. “They know you don’t have a license,” he said of the police, “and you’re fearful.”Keeping people like Aldo fearful doesn’t make anyone else safer. Giving them the right to have a driver’s license makes sense.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — President Donald Trump said on Friday he was considering sending illegal immigrants in the country to so-called sanctuary cities, prompting U.S. mayors to accept such an offer as the battle over border security raged.Frustrated by rising numbers of undocumented immigrants arriving at the southern border and a failure to get Congress to fully fund a U.S.-Mexico border wall, Trump taunted Democrats by dangling the possibility of an influx of illegal immigrants into their communities."Due to the fact that Democrats are unwilling to change our very dangerous immigration laws, we are indeed, as reported, giving strong considerations to placing Illegal Immigrants in Sanctuary Cities only," Trump wrote on Twitter.Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney responded in a statement: "While the Trump administration's proposal shows their disdain to basic human dignity, the City (Philadelphia) would be prepared to welcome these immigrants just as we have embraced our immigrant communities for decades."In February, a federal appeals court said the Trump administration could not terminate federal grants to Philadelphia for its refusal to cooperate with immigration agents seeking to deport immigrants. In Chicago, Mayor Rahm Emanuel said in a statement "We would welcome these migrants with open arms, just as we welcomed Syrian refugees, just as we welcomed Puerto Ricans displaced by Hurricane Maria and just as we welcome Rohingya refugees fleeing genocide in Myanmar." Sanctuary cities are local jurisdictions that generally give undocumented immigrants safe harbour by refusing to use their resources to help enforce federal immigration laws that could lead to deportations.Those localities argue that it is not their responsibility to get involved in federal enforcement and that doing so could hinder policing efforts within communities. The Washington Post first reported on Thursday that the White House has been considering a plan for transporting immigrants in detention and releasing them into sanctuary cities that are Democratic strongholds.The newspaper reported there was resistance from some high-level Department of Homeland Security officials concerned about several aspects of such a plan, including the potential costs.Nevertheless, Trump, speaking to reporters at the White House on Friday, said of sanctuary cities, "We can give them an unlimited supply" of immigrants.White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said these would be "illegal aliens that are already set for release," which likely would include families with children. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi's hometown of San Francisco is another sanctuary city.In remarks to reporters on Friday, Pelosi, a Democrat, said she was not aware of the newspaper report. But she added, "it's just another notion that is unworthy of the presidency of the United States and disrespectful of the challenges that we face, as a country, as a people, to address who we are, a nation of immigrants."Pelosi was in Leesburg, Virginia, where House Democrats were wrapping up a three-day retreat.One immigration expert, who asked not to be identified, noted that undocumented immigrants in federal custody could be at one of several stages of the adjudication process and that Trump likely has the power to have them sent to different jurisdictions from where they are being held.But the source added, "This is a stunt. It doesn't enhance the efficiency of the process."Trump's challenge to Democrats came one day after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican like Trump, told reporters that he wanted to launch bipartisan negotiations to seek solutions to the nation's immigration woes.In March alone, 103,492 undocumented immigrants have been taken into custody along the southern border or turned away. Many of them are from El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala and are seeking asylum in the United States away from high levels of violent crime and illegal drugs at home. (Reporting by Mohammad Zargham and Richard Cowan in Washington and Susan Cornwell in Leesburg, Virginia; editing by Richard Chang and James Dalgleish)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBoth involve a journey. And both are under assault by this administration.By Jennifer Finney BoylanContributing Opinion Writer Last week, a 9-year-old American citizen, Julia Isabel Amparo Medina, was detained at the Mexican border for 30 hours. Although she had made the trip every school day from her home in Tijuana, Mexico, to school in California, authorities claimed they could not identify her.Back in January, two British women angrily accosted the human rights activist Sarah McBride after a conference that had brought together members of Congress and the parents of transgender youth. The women, members of a group that denies the humanity of transgender people, referred to Ms. McBride with male pronouns and accused her of championing rape and the erasure of lesbians.On the surface, it might seem as if the detention of Julia and the cruelty of transphobes is unrelated. But both hatreds, in fact, rise from the same dark spring.“People who have transitioned,” those anti-trans activists seemed to suggest, “aren’t sending their best. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.”Actually, unless I missed something, they didn’t say a word about people like Sarah McBride and me being good people. Mostly they implied, as the president once said of undocumented immigrants, that we’re not people. That we’re animals.Comparing the trans experience to those of other marginalized groups is awkward, and not least because gender and race and poverty have different, if entwined histories. We conflate them at our peril.Still, the narrative of migration can provide a helpful metaphor for the lives of some trans folks. This isn’t true for all of us, to be sure. But for someone who transitioned midlife, like me, it works pretty well.I’m 60 years old now. I was 40 when I set out on the dangerous crossing that led from the place where I was born to these green fields of womanhood.From my earliest memory, the old country — so to speak — felt like a foreign place; for me it was, at least at times, a place of hunger. I knew that if I stayed in the country where I was born — dear old BoyLand — I would never survive. And so I set out for this new land, the place I’d been dreaming of, one way or another, since I was 6 years old. In 2000, when I came out, I finally got my green card.On the whole, my life has been lucky and blessed. But womanhood has also come with new threats. One night, outside a bar in Waterville, Me., a would-be suitor grabbed me roughly by the wrist and said, “I tell you what, Jenny, we can do this the easy way, or we can do this the hard way.” (I escaped from him, but I think about that night sometimes, and what might have happened if I had not.)I can assure you that no one transitions from male to female to get a better deal. And yet, even at its harshest, the world I live in now feels like the one for which God made me.Has my experience of womanhood been identical to that of other women my age? Of course not. I speak, sometimes, with a hint of a foreign accent, a vestigial trace of the country where I was born.As Zadie Smith writes in her novel “White Teeth,” “This is the other thing about immigrants (’fugees, émigrés, travelers): They cannot escape their history any more than you yourself can lose your shadow.”I’m all too aware of the way my past informs my present, and there are plenty of times when I long to have lived a life unburdened by the past.And yet, just because I began my life somewhere else, I am no less a citizen of the country I have made my own. My womanhood is not a matter for debate. What it is, above all, is a fact. It is, however, a fact that cannot possibly be understood without imagination.When members of the present administration claim that people like me should be “erased,” are they not saying, in so many words, “Build that wall”? Are they not echoing the cries of every xenophobic bigot throughout history in furiously demanding that I Go Back Where I Came From?I’m not going back. I’m staying here, in the land I struggled so hard to reach. It is here, as a woman, that I’ve built a home. Is where I began my days really so much more important than where I wound up?There are all kinds of women in this world: Amelia Earhart and Aretha Franklin; Sonia Sotomayor and Kathy Griffin; Bonnie Raitt and Toni Morrison.If there is room in this world for all these women, surely there might be some room for me.What the world needs now is not more walls — to keep out the strange, the different, the new. What the world needs now is not hatred — of men, of women, of anyone in between.What the world needs now is bridges: across rivers, across genders, across every last border that divides us, one soul from another.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Jennifer Finney Boylan, a contributing opinion writer, is a professor of English at Barnard College and the author of the novel “Long Black Veil.”  @JennyBoylan AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressEL PASO, Texas — Two Indian men who were force-fed during a hunger strike inside a Texas immigration detention center are out of government custody.U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman Leticia Zamarripa confirmed Thursday that Jasvir Singh and Rajandeep Singh were released on bond from the El Paso Processing Center.After The Associated Press revealed ICE was force-feeding nine immigrant detainees through nasal tubes in January, the facility stopped the controversial practice under public pressure. The United Nations human rights office said in February that the force-feeding of immigrant hunger strikers there could violate the U.N. Convention Against Torture.Immigration judges initially ordered that both men be deported. Their uncle Amrit Singh said they will appeal their immigration cases and join family in California. One man's attorney said an appeal already was filed.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The Trump administration and Republicans in the U.S. Congress, unable to fully fund a U.S.-Mexico border wall, are refocusing their immigration agenda on a proposal for simpler, faster deportations of undocumented children and families from Central America.In an effort that is sure to encounter resistance from Democrats, Republicans want to make deporting people from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras as swift and easy as it already is to deport undocumented people from Mexico or Canada, according to lawmakers and immigrant advocates.Doing so would mean changing U.S. asylum law in a profound way, according to immigrant advocates, who warned the Republican plan could result in persecuted children being sent back to their dangerous Central American homelands.On its own, such a deportation crackdown would likely stumble in Congress due to Democratic opposition, but it might advance if it were paired with another measure that Democrats favor, said Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham, a Republican, on Wednesday."I have to give them something they want," Graham said in an interview, referring to the Democrats.He said he would move quickly on legislation once the Department of Homeland Security tells him exactly what it wants, "and then let the negotiations begin."Any deportation crackdown would mark President Donald Trump's latest attempt to expel undocumented Central American immigrants, who are arriving at the U.S. border in rising numbers, and to discourage others from coming to United States.On Wednesday, Trump tweeted: "Congress must get together and immediately eliminate the loopholes at the Border! If no action, Border, or large sections of Border, will close. This is a National Emergency!"'LOOPHOLES'One of the "loopholes" he referred to has to do with asylum. At present, undocumented immigrants, including children unaccompanied by parents, can seek U.S. asylum if they come from countries whose governments cannot protect them from persecution.That standard applies to Central Americans, but it is not as stringent for Mexicans and Canadians, who can quickly and easily be deported by U.S. officials.The Trump administration wants to align treatment of Central Americans seeking asylum with that of Canadians and Mexicans.That would "allow the deportation of unaccompanied children before they've had a fair chance to claim protection," Wendy Young, president of Kids in Need of Defense, a group that advocates for immigrant children, told a conference call with reporters.Young said the Republican approach could result in youths being sent back to their homelands, which they would likely only flee again.But Senate Homeland Security Committee Chairman Ron Johnson, also a Republican, said in a brief interview: "What we need to do is we need to change our laws that are incentivizing and rewarding unaccompanied children and family units coming to this country because once they're here, they stay."Last Thursday, in a letter to Congress, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said, "Most immediately, we need the authority to treat all arriving migrant children equally."She added that she would soon submit legislation to Congress to carry this out. On Friday, without giving details, she issued a statement that said, "DHS will need emergency legislative action to restore order" on the border with Mexico.No legislation has been publicly unveiled by Republicans, whose clout in Congress is limited now that Democrats control the House of Representatives and retain enough votes in the Senate to block most legislation.Many of Trump's fellow Republicans have spoken out against his recent threats to close the Mexican border and his announcement last weekend of plans to terminate U.S. aid to El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.At the same time, the president's declaration of a national emergency at the southern border in order to help seize funds to build a wall to repel immigrants is tied up in federal courts.Trump has repeatedly threatened to close the border to stem what he calls a tide of illegal immigration. On Friday, he said he would close the border this week unless Mexico took steps to stop illegal migration. (Additional reporting by David Alexander, Jeff Mason, Doina Chiacu and Alexandra Alper; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Julia JacobsAn Illinois woman is facing federal charges of forced labor after the F.B.I. raided her home and discovered 33 Guatemalan immigrants, some of whom were made to work and pay thousands of dollars as a debt for helping them stay in the United States, the authorities said this week.The F.B.I. searched the home of the woman, Concepcion Malinek, in Cicero, Ill., a Chicago suburb, on Tuesday morning after interviewing immigrants who described an abusive living situation in which Ms. Malinek exerted control over their every move, according to a criminal complaint. The authorities said they found 19 adults and 14 children, as well as documents apparently outlining the immigrants’ debts to Ms. Malinek, 49.The immigrants who spoke with the F.B.I. said that Ms. Malinek, who is a dual citizen of the United States and Guatemala, either helped pay for their plane ticket to Chicago or allowed them to tell immigration authorities that they would be staying at her house after they crossed the United States-Mexico border, according to the complaint. When the immigrants arrived to Ms. Malinek’s home, it said, she told them that they owed her thousands of dollars for her assistance.Some of the immigrants, who were not named in the complaint, told the F.B.I. that Ms. Malinek charged them for rent, child care and transportation to a factory where she arranged for them to work, according to the complaint. One man said he slept in the basement of Ms. Malinek’s home and that she did not allow them to leave the basement unless they received her permission. The man and his 15-year-old daughter, who lived on the ground floor, were allowed to see each other only for limited periods of time, the complaint said.The authorities also found fraudulent permanent resident cards for the father and daughter in the house, the complaint said. The 15-year-old daughter, who worked at the factory with the other immigrants, had a fake permanent resident card that said she was in her late 20sThe authorities said they learned of the alleged forced-labor scheme through a tip from someone who worked with the immigrants at the factory in Romeoville, Ill., about 25 miles southwest of Cicero. The immigrants told the authorities that Ms. Malinek often threatened them with deportation if they told anyone about their living situation.According to the complaint, one of the immigrants said that Ms. Malinek had told them, “Immigration knows how many people live in this house,” and that “you guys are poor and I have all the money.”Ms. Malinek was charged with two counts of forced labor in reference to two immigrants who say she forced them to work under the threat of serious harm. Each count carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison.On Thursday, United States Magistrate Judge Jeffrey Cole ordered that Ms. Malinek be held without bail, according to court documents.A lawyer for Ms. Malinek did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Friday night.A spokesman for the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois said Ms. Malinek’s husband, who is a Transportation Security Administration agent, is also being investigated. The spokesman would not specify where the 33 Guatemalan immigrants were living after they were recovered from the home but said that some were in protective custody.According to the complaint, one of the immigrants told the authorities that Ms. Malinek called them upstairs from the basement each Thursday to meet with “immigration officials.” The Justice Department spokesman declined to comment on whether these were actual immigration officials.A prosecutor told The Chicago Sun-Times that the immigrants were being held in squalor, with mold, cockroaches and leaking sewage in the house. In court on Thursday, The Chicago Sun-Times reported, Ms. Malinek’s defense lawyer, Raymond Pijon, told the judge that Ms. Malinek believed she was helping the immigrants — some of them her family members — flee Guatemala.“There was a lot of good heart behind that,” Pijon said, according to The Sun-Times, “because she knows what’s happening in Guatemala.”The Justice Department spokesman would not comment on whether the immigrants were in the country illegally or not, but in the complaint, one of the immigrants told the F.B.I. that some people living in the house were seeking political asylum.Follow Julia Jacobs on Twitter: @juliarebeccaj.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCHICAGO — Democratic lawmakers in Illinois want to expand a statewide embargo on private prisons to include detention centers with federal contracts to hold immigrants facing deportation.The proposed measure comes in response to a vote by community leaders that approved a plan for a privately run immigration detention center in the village of Dwight, about 70 miles (110 kilometers) southwest of Chicago.The Illinois House passed the proposed revision to the Private Correctional Facility Moratorium Act Wednesday, the Chicago Tribune reported. The act would forbid local government from contracting with a private provider for "community correctional supervision."U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is accepting bids for contracts to run detention facilities that can hold 1,000 immigrants within 80 miles (130 kilometers) of Chicago.State Rep. Kelly Cassidy, of Chicago, filed the bill in February. Cassidy said she hopes it will halt the Dwight plan because "profiting off putting people in cages is morally bankrupt and not something that the state of Illinois should be supporting."The measure also aims to prevent similar facilities from being built elsewhere, said Celina Villanueva, co-sponsor of the bill."My concern isn't just Dwight. My concern is the entire state of Illinois," Villanueva said.Jared Anderson, the Dwight village board president, said officials are watching the progress of the bill and trying to figure out what it would mean for the contract the village has already entered into with Immigration Centers of America, the Virginia-based company behind the immigration detention center plan."We are not going to make a comment on anything until the state does what it wants to do," Anderson noted.John Truscott, a spokesman for Immigration Centers of American, said the company is moving ahead with efforts to secure a federal contract to operate in Illinois, and that the language of the bill will determine whether it can build the Dwight facility."We will continue making progress until it's just not feasible or we don't get awarded the facility on the federal level," Truscott said.An ICE official declined to comment.___Information from: Chicago Tribune, http://www.chicagotribune.comAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON/SAN FRANCISCO — When Arturo Balbino, a Texas construction worker, walked into his visa interview at the American consulate in the northern Mexican border town of Ciudad Juarez in March, he wasn't nervous. He felt good.Balbino, a 33-year-old Mexican national who had entered the United States illegally 14 years ago, thought he had a strong case for a spousal visa: a wife and children who are U.S. citizens, a father-in-law who had pledged in an affidavit to financially support him if necessary, and a letter from his employer guaranteeing him an $18-per-hour job upon his return.When he went for the interview, he was at the final step of legalizing his status, which would, he hoped, pave the way for a more stable life for himself and his family.Instead, the consular officer denied his application on the grounds that he could become a drain on U.S. taxpayers by requiring government financial assistance, according to documents reviewed by Reuters.That decision stranded Balbino in Mexico indefinitely and upended his family’s life.More and more aspiring immigrants – especially Mexicans – are being denied visas based on determinations by the U.S. State Department that they might become "public charges," dependent on the government for support, according to official data and interviews with attorneys, immigrants and their family members.Lawyers for some immigrants say consular officers are denying visas even when applicants fulfill legal requirements to prove they will be financially independent.The refusals, capping an often complex and lengthy application process, can trap people for months or longer outside the United States, separated from American spouses and children, as they renew their efforts to legally return. Some may never be able to go back.One reason for the rise in refusals are little-known changes last year in the State Department's foreign affairs manual that gave diplomats wider discretion in deciding visa denials on public-charge grounds.The changes occurred in January 2018 as the Department of Homeland Security was preparing a separate, highly controversial proposal to restrict immigration on public-charge grounds. The regulation, officially proposed in October, received more than 200,000 public comments, which will likely take months longer to fully evaluate.Some critics say the State Department is using a back door, tightening immigration policy without going through a similarly high-profile rulemaking process."The State Department is trying to bypass public comment and implement changes to public-charge (policy) all on its own," said Charles Wheeler, an attorney with the Catholic Legal Immigration Network. "These changes are already having a terrible effect on people."The State Department declined to comment, citing pending litigation over the manual changes.In the lawsuit in a Maryland federal court, the government rejected accusations that the manual changes are motivated by any antipathy toward immigrants and argued that such “guidance” is not subject to court review or laws requiring public comment.The guidance, government lawyers wrote in a February court filing, is neutral and implements a long-standing U.S. law meant to exclude immigrants who are likely to become burdens on the United States.The government acknowledged in the filing that the guidance "could potentially lead" to more frequent public-charge denials.The changes to the manual are not the only reason for the increase in refusals of immigrant visa applications on public-charge grounds. Those have risen since 2015, when fewer than 900 were issued, according to government data.But after the manual changes in January 2018, the refusals shot up. In the 2018 fiscal year, which ended in September, nearly 13,500 immigrant visa applications were refused on public-charge grounds - quadruple the number in the previous fiscal year and the highest total since 2004.FEWER VISAS FOR MEXICANSAlthough the State Department does not release visa refusal data by nationality or consulate, immigration lawyers said public-charge enforcement is particularly rigorous at the U.S. consulate in Ciudad Juarez, where all Mexican immigrant visa applications are processed.Mexicans received 11 percent fewer immigrant visas in fiscal year 2018 compared to 2017. That compares to a 4.6 percent overall decline in such visas to people of all nationalities during that period.Previously, the State Department typically considered an "affidavit of support," signed by an American citizen or permanent resident offering to act as a sponsor of the immigrant, sufficient evidence that the person would not become a government burden, immigration lawyers said.To qualify as a sponsor, a person must make at least 125 percent of the U.S. poverty level for that person’s household size. According to the affidavit from Balbino's father-in-law, seen by Reuters, he made almost $90,000 a year – tens of thousands of dollars more than the government requires for a household of his size.Now, according to the manual, the affidavit is just one factor among many. Consular officers are also now allowed to consider past or current use of public benefits – including health and nutrition services. And that includes use by an immigrant's family, even if they are citizens. Under the previous version of the manual, consular officials were not permitted to consider the use of non-cash benefits.Balbino's children's use of the Medicaid program for low-income households and food stamps was an issue that came up in his visa interview, along with questions about his father-in-law's commitment to supporting him, Balbino said. TRAPPED IN MEXICOPublic-charge denials can be particularly devastating for people like Balbino, who entered the United States illegally, built lives and have an opportunity to legalize their status through marriage.It’s a complex process, but one many immigrants like Balbino are willing to complete. U.S. law requires people who have been present in the United States illegally for longer than six months to leave and remain abroad for several years before attempting to re-enter.But visa applicants can ask for waivers that allow them to return more quickly. Balbino obtained such a waiver in 2017. Once a visa is refused on public-charge grounds, however, such waivers are revoked, trapping the person outside the country for months or years.With Balbino's waiver now revoked, his wife, Darlene, is considering moving with her children to Balbino’s hometown in the Mexican state of Guanajuato. She doesn't work and is struggling to pay the bills."We can't make it on our own any more," she said. Because the family is so strapped, two of the five children, aged 6 and 10, have already been sent to live with Balbino - a move they are finding difficult. “They’ve spent their whole life in the United States," Balbino said in an interview. "They don't speak much Spanish."The 6-year-old boy had been receiving therapy for a speech impediment at his Texas school, but after the move to Mexico his speech has started to regress, said Darlene Balbino, who is still in Texas with her two older daughters and a toddler while she figures out what to do next.Her husband is contemplating the possibility that the family will be apart for years.“At times I want to think that everything will be okay and I’ll be able to be with my family again,” Arturo Balbino said. “It’s very difficult to think that I won’t be able to return to watch my children grow up." (Reporting by Yeganeh Torbati in Washington and Kristina Cooke in San Francisco; Editing by Julie Marquis and Ross Colvin)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFact-Check President Trump cited an array of statistics to paint a portrait of widespread criminal conduct by undocumented immigrants. Here’s the context behind them. By Linda QiuWhat WAS Said23% of Federal inmates are illegal immigrants. Border arrests are up 240%. In the Great State of Texas, between 2011 & 2018, there were a total of 292,000 crimes by illegal aliens, 539 murders, 32,000 assaults, 3,426 sexual assaults and 3000 weapons charges. Democrats come back!Twenty-two days into the longest government shutdown ever, President Trump continued to press his case for a border wall. His tweet on Saturday was crammed with statistics that were either exaggerated or omitted important context. Immigrant prison populationMr. Trump’s figure for the percentage of unauthorized immigrants in federal prisons is exaggerated.Out of the Bureau of Prisons’ total inmate population of 183,058 in the first quarter of the 2018 fiscal year, 21 percent were immigrants, both legal and undocumented, according to a government report. At least 13 percent of the total population, or 23,826 inmates, were in the country unlawfully. The immigration status of another 11,698 inmates was under investigation, while 2,608 inmates were lawful immigrants or had received relief from deportation.The most common crimes committed by these immigrants were drug-related offenses (46 percent) and immigration offenses (29 percent). It’s worth noting, too, that about half of the arrests made by the federal government are for immigration-related offenses, perhaps explaining the high proportion of immigrants in federal prisons. The report acknowledges that it does not include data from state and local prisons, which house 90 percent of all inmates in the United States.Border arrestsMr. Trump did not give a time frame for his 240 percent figure, nor did he specify what the number referred to, which may give the misleading impression that border crossings overall have increased threefold. The figure instead refers to a surge in families attempting to cross at the southwest border. The number of family units apprehended at the border more than tripled from 8,120 in December 2017 to 27,518 in December 2018, overwhelming immigration officials and creating a new humanitarian crisis.Overall, illegal border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades, and in the 2017 fiscal year, border crossing apprehensions were at their lowest point since 1971. In the 2018 fiscal year, however, annual apprehensions did increase by 30 percent from the previous fiscal year.Immigrant criminals in TexasMr. Trump’s figures are accurate, but they need context. The Texas Department of Public Safety did report that the 186,000 unauthorized immigrants booked into local jails from 2011 to 2018 faced 292,000 charges.The caveats: These offenses did not necessarily occur during that eight-year time frame. More than half of these charges were uncategorized. And the charges Mr. Trump singled out did not always result in convictions (238 for homicide, 13,559 for assault, 1,689 for sexual assault and 1,280 for weapons).For comparison, data from the Texas Department of Public Safety shows that some 7.5 million arrests were made from 2010 to 2017 (data for 2018 was not yet available), including 6,161 for murder, 177,000 for aggravated assault, 14,000 for rape and nearly 89,000 for weapons charges. A 2018 study from the libertarian Cato Institute found that in Texas, conviction and arrest rates for illegal immigrants were lower than those for native-born Americans for most crimes.An earlier version of this article misstated the data included in a government report on immigrants in prison. The report does not include data from state and local prisons.Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Tuesday adopted a strict interpretation of a federal immigration law, saying it required the detention of immigrants facing deportation without the possibility of bail if they had committed crimes, including minor ones, no matter how long ago they had been released from criminal custody.The vote was 5 to 4, with the court’s more conservative justices in the majority. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., writing for the majority, said the plain language of a federal law required the result.Justice Stephen G. Breyer summarized his dissent from the bench, a sign of profound disagreement. He said the majority had violated the nation’s basic values.“The greater importance of the case,” he said, “lies in the power that the majority’s interpretation grants the government. It is a power to detain persons who committed a minor crime many years before. And it is a power to hold those persons, perhaps for many months, without an opportunity to obtain bail.”Justice Alito said the law may be subject to constitutional challenges in individual cases, a subject that was not before the justices. It was clear, he wrote, that Congress had required the secretary of Homeland Security to take into custody immigrants released from criminal custody even if years had passed in the meantime.“An official’s crucial duties are better carried out late than never,” Justice Alito wrote.Cecillia Wang, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, which represented the immigrants challenging the law, said the decision was part of a worrisome trend.“For two terms in a row now,” she said, “the Supreme Court has endorsed the most extreme interpretation of immigration detention statutes, allowing mass incarceration of people without any hearing, simply because they are defending themselves against a deportation charge.”The case concerned a law, enacted in 1996, which included a contested phrase. It said federal authorities “shall take into custody any alien” convicted of certain crimes, some serious and some minor, “when the alien is released.” The key word was “when.”Immigrants’ rights advocates said the law required prompt detention. Lawyers for the federal government said immigrants convicted of crimes may be detained years after their release.The difference matters, for hundreds and perhaps thousands of immigrants, because people detained under the law are not entitled to a bail hearing to determine whether they are dangerous or pose a flight risk.The plaintiffs included people who entered the country illegally, tourists or students who overstayed their visas and lawful permanent residents. Among them were immigrants who arrived in the United States legally as infants, committed minor crimes like possessing marijuana and were detained years after completing their sentences.The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, concluded that the law requires mandatory detention only if the federal authorities take immigrants into custody soon after they are released.“Because Congress’s use of the word ‘when’ conveys immediacy,” Jacqueline H. Nguyen wrote for a unanimous three-judge panel, “we conclude that the immigration detention must occur promptly upon the aliens’ release from criminal custody.”Justice Alito wrote that such a strict deadline could allow local authorities opposed to federal immigration policy to frustrate the goals of the federal law.“State and local officials sometimes rebuff the government’s request that they give notice when a criminal alien will be released,” he wrote. He cited statistics indicating that there were tens of thousand of such refusals in 48 states from January 2014 to September 2016.“Under these circumstances, it is hard to believe that Congress made the secretary’s mandatory-detention authority vanish at the stroke of midnight after an alien’s release,” he wrote.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Clarence Thomas, Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh joined all or most of the majority opinion.In a concurring opinion, Justice Kavanaugh wrote that the question before the court was a narrow one.He said it was beyond dispute that the government can deport immigrants convicted of some crimes and that it can detain them during deportation proceedings.The question the court decided, he wrote, was merely whether “the executive branch’s mandatory duty to detain a particular noncitizen when the noncitizen is released from criminal custody remains mandatory if the executive branch fails to immediately detain the noncitizen when the noncitizen is released from criminal custody.”It would be odd, he wrote, for that requirement to change, for example, “if the executive branch fails to immediately detain the noncitizen because of resource constraints or because the executive branch cannot immediately locate and apprehend the individual in question.”In dissent, Justice Breyer wrote that the case was neither narrow nor technical.“Under the government’s view,” he wrote, “the aliens subject to detention without a bail hearing may have been released from criminal custody years earlier, and may have established families and put down roots in a community.”“These aliens,” Justice Breyer wrote, “may then be detained for months, sometimes years, without the possibility of release; they may have been convicted of only minor crimes — for example, minor drug offenses, or crimes of ‘moral turpitude’ such as illegally downloading music or possessing stolen bus transfers; and they sometimes may be innocent spouses or children of a suspect person.”Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan joined the dissent in the case, Nielsen v. Preap, No. 16-1363.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFact-Check President Trump cited an array of statistics to paint a portrait of widespread criminal conduct by undocumented immigrants. Here’s the context behind them. By Linda QiuWhat WAS Said23% of Federal inmates are illegal immigrants. Border arrests are up 240%. In the Great State of Texas, between 2011 & 2018, there were a total of 292,000 crimes by illegal aliens, 539 murders, 32,000 assaults, 3,426 sexual assaults and 3000 weapons charges. Democrats come back!Twenty-two days into the longest government shutdown ever, President Trump continued to press his case for a border wall. His tweet on Saturday was crammed with statistics that were either exaggerated or omitted important context. Immigrant prison populationMr. Trump’s figure for the percentage of unauthorized immigrants in federal prisons is exaggerated.Out of the Bureau of Prisons’ total inmate population of 183,058 in the first quarter of the 2018 fiscal year, 21 percent were immigrants, both legal and undocumented, according to a government report. At least 13 percent of the total population, or 23,826 inmates, were in the country unlawfully. The immigration status of another 11,698 inmates was under investigation, while 2,608 inmates were lawful immigrants or had received relief from deportation.The most common crimes committed by these immigrants were drug-related offenses (46 percent) and immigration offenses (29 percent). It’s worth noting, too, that about half of the arrests made by the federal government are for immigration-related offenses, perhaps explaining the high proportion of immigrants in federal prisons. The report acknowledges that it does not include data from state and local prisons, which house 90 percent of all inmates in the United States.Border arrestsMr. Trump did not give a time frame for his 240 percent figure, nor did he specify what the number referred to, which may give the misleading impression that border crossings overall have increased threefold. The figure instead refers to a surge in families attempting to cross at the southwest border. The number of family units apprehended at the border more than tripled from 8,120 in December 2017 to 27,518 in December 2018, overwhelming immigration officials and creating a new humanitarian crisis.Overall, illegal border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades, and in the 2017 fiscal year, border crossing apprehensions were at their lowest point since 1971. In the 2018 fiscal year, however, annual apprehensions did increase by 30 percent from the previous fiscal year.Immigrant criminals in TexasMr. Trump’s figures are accurate, but they need context. The Texas Department of Public Safety did report that the 186,000 unauthorized immigrants booked into local jails from 2011 to 2018 faced 292,000 charges.The caveats: These offenses did not necessarily occur during that eight-year time frame. More than half of these charges were uncategorized. And the charges Mr. Trump singled out did not always result in convictions (238 for homicide, 13,559 for assault, 1,689 for sexual assault and 1,280 for weapons).For comparison, data from the Texas Department of Public Safety shows that some 7.5 million arrests were made from 2010 to 2017 (data for 2018 was not yet available), including 6,161 for murder, 177,000 for aggravated assault, 14,000 for rape and nearly 89,000 for weapons charges. A 2018 study from the libertarian Cato Institute found that in Texas, conviction and arrest rates for illegal immigrants were lower than those for native-born Americans for most crimes.An earlier version of this article misstated the data included in a government report on immigrants in prison. The report does not include data from state and local prisons.Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Trip GabrielUpdate: Steve King was removed from his committee assignments over the comments made in this article. Years before President Trump forced a government shutdown over a border wall, triggering a momentous test of wills in Washington, Representative Steve King of Iowa took to the House floor to show off a model of a 12-foot border wall he had designed.And long before Mr. Trump demonized immigrants — accusing Mexico of exporting criminals and calling for an end to birthright citizenship — Mr. King turned those views into talking points, with his use of misleading data about victims of undocumented immigrants and demeaning remarks about Latinos.Immigration is Mr. Trump’s go-to issue, his surest connection to his most faithful supporters, and his prime-time address on Tuesday night underscored his willingness to use fear and misleading statements  to appeal to voters — just as he did with warnings about a migrant caravan before the midterm elections.The Republican Party hadn’t always intended to go this route: Officials tried for years to come up with broad-based immigration reform that would appeal to growing numbers of Latino voters. But Mr. Trump’s preoccupation with the wall and anti-immigrant politics reflects how he has embraced the once-fringe views of Mr. King, who has used racist language in the past, promotes neo-Nazis on Twitter and was recently denounced by one Republican leader as a white supremacist.With the federal government in a third week of paralysis over a border wall, Mr. Trump’s positions are a reminder of how Mr. King’s ideology and his language maligning undocumented residents helped shape the Republican message in 2016 and 2018 and define Mr. Trump’s agenda and prospects for re-election. Mr. King may have been ostracized by some Republicans over his racist remarks and extremist ties, but as much of the nation debates immigration, his views now carry substantial influence on the right.Early in Mr. Trump’s term, the president invited Mr. King — who was long snubbed by establishment Republicans like the former House speaker John A. Boehner — to the Oval Office. There, the president boasted of having raised more money for the congressman’s campaigns than anyone else, including during a 2014 Iowa visit, Mr. King recalled in an interview with The Times.“Yes, Mr. President,” Mr. King replied. “But I market-tested your immigration policy for 14 years, and that ought to be worth something.”Mr. King, a 69-year-old former bulldozer operator with a combative manner, who has been elected nine times, helped write the book on white identity politics that are ascendant in Mr. Trump’s Republican Party. That provides both a template for Mr. Trump and a warning.Mr. King’s full-throated embrace of nativism has long found a supportive constituency in the rural Midwest, the region that was a key to Mr. Trump’s 2016 victory and represents his most likely path to re-election.But at the same time, Mr. King’s margin of victory in 2018 shrank to its narrowest in 16 years. He made national headlines for endorsing a Toronto mayoral candidate with neo-Nazi ties and for meeting with a far-right Austrian party accused of trivializing the Holocaust. On Twitter, he follows an Australian anti-Semitic activist, who proposed hanging a portrait of Hitler “in every classroom.” And in October, the chairman of the Republican House elections committee, Representative Steve Stivers of Ohio, condemned Mr. King, saying, “We must stand up against white supremacy and hate in all forms.” Mr. King lost corporate agriculture donors like Purina, Land O’Lakes and Smithfield. He dropped from an 18-point lead over his Democratic opponent in his internal polls to barely squeaking out a three-point win on Election Day. On Wednesday, Mr. King drew a formidable challenger for his Fourth District seat in the 2020 Republican primary: Randy Feenstra, an assistant majority leader in the State Senate, who said Mr. King had left Iowa “without a seat at the table” because of “sideshows” and “distractions.’’Mr. King, in the interview, said he was not a racist. He pointed to his Twitter timeline showing him greeting Iowans of all races and religions in his Washington office. (The same office once displayed a Confederate flag on his desk.)At the same time, he said, he supports immigrants who enter the country legally and fully assimilate because what matters more than race is “the culture of America” based on values brought to the United States by whites from Europe.“White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization — how did that language become offensive?” Mr. King said. “Why did I sit in classes teaching me about the merits of our history and our civilization?”After this article was published Thursday, Mr. King issued a public statement calling himself a “nationalist” and defending his support of “western civilization’s values,” and said he was not an advocate for “white nationalism and white supremacy.” “I want to make one thing abundantly clear: I reject those labels and the evil ideology they define,” he wrote.Mr. King’s influence over national politics derives from his representation of the reddest district in the first presidential nominating state. Nearly all the 2016 Republican presidential contenders sought his blessing at a forum he hosted in Des Moines in January 2015, Mr. Trump included.“Donald Trump came to Iowa as a real nonideological candidate,” Mr. King recalled. Mr. Trump’s first hire in Iowa, Chuck Laudner, was a former chief of staff to Mr. King. Mr. Trump’s first Iowa rally directly followed a visit to the Mexican border.The previous year, Mr. Trump had visited to endorse Mr. King’s re-election. As the congressman warned of scenarios like Islamic State terrorists or even Africans with ebola illegally entering the country, Mr. Trump listened and nodded. When he stepped to the microphone, he echoed Mr. King.“Well, border security is a very big issue,” he said. “People are just flooding across.”Tom Tancredo, a former Colorado congressman who once held the most conservative views in official Washington on immigration, calling for a moratorium on even legal immigrants, said he “handed the baton to Steve King” when he left the House in 2008.David Johnson, a former Republican state senator from Mr. King’s district, said he heard in the president’s rhetoric a direct echo of Mr. King. “They belong to the same subset of white nationalists who are afraid of how the country is changing,” he said.Mr. King was born in Storm Lake, Iowa, and attended high school in nearby Denison, then a nearly all-white rural farming region, where his father managed a state police radio station.After founding an earth-moving company, Mr. King ran successfully for the State Senate in 1996. His most notable legacy from six years in the Legislature was a law making English the official state language. It was a time when packinghouses and other agricultural employers had dropped wages, and Latino migrants increasingly were taking jobs that no longer attracted native-born Iowans.Elected to Congress in 2002, Mr. King attracted the attention of hate-watch groups like the Anti-Defamation League as he spoke increasingly about preserving “Western culture” or “Western civilization.” The groups consider those buzzwords that signal support to white nationalists, along with an obsession with birthrates and abortion rates among different ethnic groups.“He uses the concepts of either ‘culture’ or ‘civilization’ to obfuscate that he’s talking about whiteness and race,” said Lawrence Rosenthal, chairman of the Berkeley Center for Right-Wing Studies.In 2011, Mr. King objected to the Affordable Care Act’s mandate to cover contraception. “That’s not constructive to our culture and our civilization,” he said in a speech in the House. “If we let our birthrate get down below the replacement rate, we’re a dying civilization.”Mr. King seems further emboldened during the Trump presidency.In an interview in August with a far-right web publication in Austria, Mr. King displayed a deep familiarity with racist tracts and ideas embraced by white supremacists.He spoke of “the Great Replacement,” a conspiracy theory on the far right that claims shadowy elites are working behind the scenes to reduce white populations to minorities in their own countries.“Great replacement, yes,” Mr. King said in the interview. “These people walking into Europe by ethnic migration, 80 percent are young men.”The accusation that a “great replacement” of whites is underway — which conspiracy theorists often link to prominent Jews like George Soros — animated the torch-carrying white nationalists in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017, who chanted, “You will not replace us” and “Jews will not replace us.”Mr. Trump’s refusal to condemn the marchers, and his insistence that there were “very fine people on both sides,” was cheered by neo-Nazi websites.In Mr. King’s interview with the Austrian website, he repeated his yearslong critique of multiculturalism.“What does this diversity bring that we don’t already have? Mexican food. Chinese food,” he said. “Those things, well, that’s fine, but what does it bring that we don’t have that is worth the price?”In recent years, Mr. King has forged alliances with far-right European leaders, including Marine Le Pen of France and Geert Wilders of the Netherlands, one of the most anti-Muslim politicians in Europe, who calls for closing mosques.Ahead of Dutch elections in March 2017, Mr. King endorsed Mr. Wilders in a tweet, saying, “We can’t restore our civilization with somebody else’s babies.”Amid an ensuing controversy, he claimed the tweet wasn’t about race. Virulent white supremacists, however, heard otherwise.“Steve King is basically an open white nationalist at this point,” wrote Andrew Anglin, the founder of the neo-Nazi Daily Stormer.Mr. Anglin and others celebrated that Mr. Trump’s election had made once-fringe beliefs about ethnonationalism acceptable to mainstream politicians.As Republicans have morphed from the party of George W. Bush, who sought legal status for 12 million undocumented immigrants, to the party of Mr. Trump and Mr. King, some party leaders fear for the future in a nation where Hispanic voters are a rapidly growing electorate.“Great damage has been done,” said Carlos Curbelo, a moderate Republican who lost a South Florida congressional seat in the midterms. “For anyone who cares about having a small-government, free-enterprise party in America that can aspire to win national elections, it’s a real concern.”Mr. Curbelo, who tried to forge compromise on immigration in the House last year, said Mr. Trump told him privately, including on Air Force One, that he wanted a deal with Democrats.But the president is paralyzed by the far right, Mr. Curbelo said. “He’s terrified of losing his base and the so-called conservative media.”Last week, as the new Congress was sworn in, Mr. King sat on his side of a chamber sharply delineated by demographics. The Democratic majority included record numbers of African-Americans and women, including the first Native American and the first Muslim women. Mr. King’s side was mostly people who look like him.“You could look over there and think the Democratic Party is no country for white men,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Raphael MinderMADRID — Four decades after Spain transitioned from Franco’s dictatorship to democracy, the country’s far right has found its voice again in the nationalist, anti-immigrant Vox party.The group made its mark in December in regional elections in Andalusia, in southern Spain, where it won parliamentary seats for the first time.In the greater political sphere in Spain, Vox remains a small player. But some analysts say its appeal could spread, making it an important wild card in European Union parliamentary elections in May, when more traditional parties will be trying to hold off nationalist parties on the Continent.Vox is just one relatively diminutive stream of a swelling tide of nationalism in Europe, from Sweden, France and Hungary to Austria and Germany, where the far-right Alternative for Germany party entered Parliament in 2017. Although Vox differs from some of those movements in significant ways — it has grown amid domestic tensions generated by Catalan separatism, for instance — it shares with them a strong dislike of migrants, especially Muslims.In 2018, more migrants arrived by sea to Spain than to any other European country, including Italy and Greece, and most of them landed in the southern region of Andalusia. Such percentage-change increases in the number of migrants have been shown to increase anti-immigration sentiment.Vox is the brainchild of Santiago Abascal, a fiery speaker who founded the party after breaking with the conservative Popular Party in 2013, and who prides himself on carrying a licensed Smith & Wesson handgun.A Vox video posted before the election showed him leading a group on horseback accompanied by triumphant music worthy of “Wagon Train” in a re-enactment of the Reconquista, or Reconquest, the medieval battles waged by Spain’s Roman Catholic kings to end centuries of Muslim occupation.Vox appears to have gained its footing in Andalusia in part because the party forcefully championed Spain’s fight to stop breakaway lawmakers in Catalonia, in the northeast, from seceding. That tapped into a strong sentiment in much of Spain, where separatism has also been rejected as an attempt by wealthy Catalonia to abandon poorer regions like Andalusia.The Catalan conflict has reactivated Spanish nationalism, which had been tarred by its linkage to Franco’s dictatorship, said Astrid Barrio, a politics professor at the University of Valencia. She said the battle over secession also prompted “competitive outbidding” between right-wing politicians trying to outdo one another as defenders of Spanish sovereignty.Mr. Abascal, 42, had made his name as a fierce opponent of separatism in his home Basque region. One of Vox’s signature issues, besides its hostility to immigration, is its call for returning Spain to centralized political control. This would require removing the administrative autonomy of the country’s 17 regions, granted to them after Spain’s return to democracy, and also ending the fiscal privileges gained by some, like the Basques.Mr. Abascal also appeared to win support by denouncing the corrupt practices of the Popular Party, which ran Spain from late 2011 to last June, when it was ousted from government after a scandal involving a slush fund that collected corporate kickbacks in return for the awarding of public contracts.“Vox has a novelty factor, and it is benefiting from the major corruption scandals that have affected the main conservative party,” said Laia Balcells, an associate professor of government at Georgetown University. “In contrast to the Popular Party, they can present themselves as clean of corruption.”Vox preaches conservative values embedded in Spain’s monarchy and Roman Catholicism, including eliminating the right to abortion. It defends bullfighting and other Spanish traditions, while calling for Spain to regain control over Gibraltar, the territory at the southern tip of the country that has been British since 1713.The party also wants to erect walls around Ceuta and Melilla, two Spanish enclaves in North Africa, to stop illegal migrants who have been climbing over their border fences.Mr. Abascal has been strategic in joining forces with others pushing nationalist causes throughout Europe. In its party manifesto, Vox praises the example set by the government of Viktor Orban in Hungary, including its push to protect Christian minorities internationally.In early 2017, Mr. Abascal attended a congress of European far-right parties in Germany. A few months later, he joined Marine Le Pen, the leader of the French far-right party, on the campaign trail before France’s presidential election. In December, Ms. Le Pen was among the first politicians to congratulate Vox on its success in Andalusia.Vox said it also received advice from Stephen K. Bannon, President Trump’s former chief strategist, who has been working to build a Pan-European movement of right-wing, nationalist parties. Last year, after sending an official to Washington to meet Mr. Bannon, Vox issued a statement in which Mr. Bannon argued that “it’s very important that a party exists in Spain, based on the sovereignty and identity of the Spanish people and willing to defend its borders.”Mr. Bannon recently joined a Brussels-based research institute that aims to connect nationalist parties, particularly ahead of the May elections for the European Parliament, in which Vox hopes to burst onto the European stage. While Vox has accused the European assembly of wastefulness and is calling for tighter border controls across the Continent, it is less forcefully opposed to the European Union than other far-right figures like Ms. Le Pen, who also campaigned for France to abandon the euro currency.Sergi Pardos-Prado, an associate professor in politics at Oxford University, said the party could make a mark in the coming vote because “radical parties have traditionally done well in European elections, because it is easy — and relatively inconsequential — for disaffected voters to send protest and anti-systemic signals.”In Andalusia, the only municipality where Vox won the most votes was El Ejido, a hub for greenhouse farming that is reliant on migrant workers. It remains unclear how much the party’s anti-immigrant message will resonate with voters outside the region. Some analysts believe Vox’s appeal will be limited by the Popular Party, which has recently hardened its line on issues like migration.“The Popular Party is a very ingrained party, especially in rural areas, and it will be hard for Vox to get widespread and systematic transfers from them,” said Ms. Balcells of Georgetown.Still, since the Andalusian vote, Vox has been kept in the headlines by larger parties that have blamed one another for its emergence.Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez, who leads a fragile minority government, has accused conservative politicians of fueling “the politics of fear,” playing into the hands of Vox. He has also played down Catalonia as an explanation for Vox’s rise.“In Austria, France or Germany, they don’t have Catalonia and suffer the presence of the far right,” Mr. Sánchez said in an interview with Telecinco, a Spanish television channel.“There’s always been the far right in Spain,” he said. “But now the leadership within the Popular Party is weak, and its supporters find in Santiago Abascal a leadership that they don’t see in Pablo Casado,” the recently elected leader of the Popular Party.For now, Vox is enjoying its newfound role of kingmaker in Andalusia, where its support is needed to guarantee a new right-wing coalition government. Mr. Abascal recently warned the larger parties that Vox could not be treated as “a doormat” in the negotiations.“For the first time, the far right can count on a competitive leader,” Ms. Barrio said.AdvertisementAdvertisement

      By JOE WARD and 
    
ANJALI SINGHVI

JAN. 11, 2019

President Trump has frequently called the situation at the southern border with Mexico a crisis and insists that building his long-promised border wall will fix it. Here are some of Mr. Trump’s most common assertions of a crisis, and the reality of what we know about immigrants and the border.THE REALITY  Illegal border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades. In 2017, border-crossing apprehensions were at their lowest point since 1971.Total number of arrests for illegally crossing the Mexican borderGeorgeH.W. BushClintonGeorge W. BushObamaTrump1.5 million1.00.50’90’92’94’96’98’00’02’04’06’08’10’12’14’16’18Fiscal yearGeorgeH.W. BushClintonGeorge W. BushObama1.5 millionTrump1.00.50’90’00’10Fiscal yearUndetected illegal border crossings have dropped at an even faster rate, from 851,000 in 2006 to approximately 62,000 in 2016, according to estimates by the Department of Homeland Security.However, there is one group of migrants that is on the rise: families. A record number of families have tried to cross the border in recent months, overwhelming officials at the border and creating a new kind of humanitarian crisis.Number of arrests for illegally crossing the Mexican border30,000Nov. 2018People withfamily: 25,172Others: 21,40120,00010,000Unaccompaniedchildren: 5,283Jan. 2016JulyJan. 2017JulyJan. 2018JulyPeopletravelingwithfamily30,000Others20,00010,000Unaccompaniedchildren201620172018Asylum claims have also jumped, with many migrant families telling officials that they fear returning to their home countries. Seeking asylum is one way to legally migrate to the United States, but only 21 percent of asylum claims were granted in 2018, and many cases can take years to be resolved.THE REALITY  It is true that the majority of heroin enters the United States through the southern border, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. But the D.E.A. also says that most heroin is brought into the country in vehicles entering through legal border crossings, not through the areas where walls are proposed or already exist.Most drugs are seized at ports of entry, not along the open borderDRUG SEIZURES:AT PORTS OF ENTRYBETWEEN PORTS OF ENTRYHeroin90%10%Cocaine88%12%Methamphetamine87%13%Fentanyl80%20%Marijuana39%61%DRUG SEIZURES:AT PORTS OF ENTRYBETWEEN PORTS OF ENTRY90%10%Heroin88%12%Cocaine87%13%Methamphetamine80%20%Fentanyl39%61%MarijuanaThere are more than two dozen ports of entry along the southern border. Barriers are already present in Border Patrol sectors with the highest volumes of heroin seizures.Heroin seizures in each Border Patrol sector, 2017Weight in pounds2006001,000CALIF.U.S. BorderPatrol sectorsNEW MEXICOARIZONAEl Centro275TEXASEl Paso93Yuma223Tucson979San Diego2,365Rio Grande432Del Rio154Big Bend18Laredo503Portsof entryGULFOFMEXICOPACIFICOCEANExisting barriersalong the borderMEXICONU.S. BorderPatrolsectorsCALIF.NEW MEXICOEl Centro275ARIZONATEXASEl Paso93Yuma223Tucson979RioGrande432San Diego2,365Del Rio154Laredo503Big Bend18Portsof entryGULFOFMEXICOExisting barriersalong the borderPACIFICOCEANMEXICONU.S. BorderPatrolsectorsNEW MEXICOTEXASCALIF.ARIZONAEl Centro275El Paso93Yuma223Del Rio154Tucson979Laredo503Big Bend18San Diego2,365Ports ofentryExisting barriersalong the borderNRio Grande432MEXICOPACIFICOCEANNEWMEXICOCALIF.ARIZONATEXAS25314768Existing barriersalong the borderPorts ofentryN9MEXICOPACIFICOCEANSan Diego, 2,365Big Bend, 1816El Centro, 275Del Rio, 15427Yuma, 223Laredo, 50338Tucson, 979Rio Grande, 43249El Paso, 935THE REALITY  It is difficult to assess the president’s claims that illegal immigration leads to more crime because few law enforcement agencies release crime data that includes immigration status. However, several studies have found no link between immigration and crime, and some have found lower crime rates among immigrants.Texas, which has the longest border with Mexico and has one of the largest populations of undocumented immigrants of any state, keeps track of immigration status as part of its crime data. The Cato Institute, a libertarian research center, analyzed the Texas data for 2015 and found that the rate of crime among undocumented immigrants was generally lower than among native-born Americans.Conviction rates are lower for immigrant populations in TexasNumber of convictions for every 100,000 residents in each group, 2015All crimeHomicideSex crimeLarcenyNative born1,7973.128.6267Undocumentedimmigrants8992.626.462Legalimmigrants6111.08.974All crimeHomicideNative born1,7973.1Undocumentedimmigrants8992.6Legalimmigrants6111.0Sex crimeLarcenyNative born28.6267Undocumentedimmigrants26.462Legalimmigrants8.974Some critics of the study argued that the reason undocumented immigrant conviction rates were low was because immigrants were deported after they served their sentences, which prevented them from committing another crime in the United States, reducing their rate of crime relative to native-born Americans.Alex Nowrasteh, senior immigration policy analyst at the institute, addressed the complaint by comparing first-time criminal conviction rates among undocumented immigrants in Texas and native-born Americans in Texas. He found that undocumented immigrants still committed crimes at a rate “32 percent below that of native-born Americans.”President Trump frequently tells the stories of Americans who have been killed by undocumented immigrants as examples of criminal behavior. These terrible crimes have happened, but there is no comprehensive data that shows whether these killings are happening at crisis levels.Photographs by Ilana Panich-Linsman, Caitlin O’Hara and Mauricio Lima for The New York TimesAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIt’s not just about a physical barrier. He wants to hang an “unwelcome” sign on a nation built by immigrants. By Jorge RamosMr. Ramos is an anchor for the Univision network and the author of “Stranger: The Challenge of a Latino Immigrant in the Trump Era.”Donald Trump wants more than a wall.The president, once again, has created his own reality, manufactured a crisis, invented an invasion, criminalized immigrants, made up facts and, in a nationally televised speech on Tuesday, argued for a new wall at the United States-Mexico border. “How much more American blood must we shed before Congress does its job?” he asked from the White House.Mr. Trump is not the first president to ask for money for a wall. George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush built fences and walls along the southern border. Barack Obama maintained the resulting system of roughly 700 miles of physical barriers. So why don’t we want Mr. Trump to build his wall? What is different?The difference is that Mr. Trump’s wall is a symbol of hate and racism, it would be completely useless, and it does not address any national emergency.The $5.7 billion requested by the Trump administration to build 234 more miles of walls and fences would be an enormous waste of time and money. Beginning with the first, 14-mile stretch of border fencing, built between San Diego and Tijuana in the early 1990s, undocumented immigrants have shown they can adapt very fast and move to areas with no border barriers. Deserts in Arizona and open areas along the Rio Grande in Texas are now a favorite point of entry. The same thing would happen with a new Trump wall.We also know that almost half of all undocumented immigrants arrive by plane or with a visa. They come legally as tourists or visitors and simply overstay their visas. The tallest fence cannot stop that.Nor would a new wall prevent the flow of illegal drugs entering the country, as Mr. Trump claimed in his speech. Most drug seizures happen at ports of entry. And as long as we have more than 28 million Americans regularly using illegal drugs, we will have drug dealers in Mexico and the rest of Latin America moving their products to the most profitable market in the world.The White House claims that 4,000 suspected terrorists were arrested along the southern border last year. That is simply wrong: A vast majority were detained at airports. Just six were actually caught crossing illegally by foot.I have recently traveled to the border in California and Texas, and I can report that contrary to what the president said in his speech, there is no invasion. The undocumented population has not grown in a decade; in fact it has fallen to 10.7 million. And despite the presence of violent drug cartels on the Mexican side, the American border towns are among the safest in the country.What is undeniable is the humanitarian crisis in Tijuana. But it is a crisis created in part by Mr. Trump. Record numbers of desperate families, fleeing violence, corruption and extreme poverty, have been arriving in caravans to our southern border. Instead of their asylum requests being promptly processed, as established by international and United States laws, only a few are allowed in every day. This policy of cruelty by design has unjustly affected children and the most vulnerable people in our hemisphere. These refugees certainly do not pose a danger to our national security.There is no need for a new wall — except, of course, in Mr. Trump’s mind. The closest he got to building his wall was in January 2018, when Democratic senators negotiated a compromise for a wall in exchange for legislation on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Then the White House unexpectedly walked away from the deal.Would the Democrats revisit the offer? Luis Gutierrez, who recently retired from the House of Representatives after 26 years, once explained to me that it was like paying a ransom for a kidnapping. If the White House brings up the deal this time, it will put the Democrats in a moral dilemma: Protect the Dreamers — maybe including siblings and families — and, in the process, open the government. But the wall would be an essential element of any new deal.It won’t be easy. It is no longer 2018. Things have changed dramatically. Democrats control the House and the wall has become toxic. And then, there is the racist thing.The wall has become a metaphor to Mr. Trump and his millions of supporters. It represents a divide between “us” and “them,” a physical demarcation for those who refuse to accept that in just a few decades, a majority of the country will be people of color.This is about more than just a wall. Mr. Trump promised it in 2015, in the same speech in which he announced his candidacy, the same speech in which he called Mexican immigrants rapists, criminals and drug traffickers. His goal was to exploit the anxiety and resentment of voters in an increasingly multicultural, multiethnic society. Mr. Trump’s wall is a symbol for those who want to make America white again.The chant “Build that wall, build that wall” became his hymn — and an insult not just to Latinos but also to all people who do not share his xenophobic ideals. The wall went from a campaign promise to a monument built on bigoted ideas. That is why most Americans cannot say yes to it. Every country has a right to protect its borders. But not to a wall that represents hate, discrimination and fear.No, Mexico will not pay for the wall. And it seems Congress won’t either. But the concept of America as an unwelcoming country to immigrants and uncomfortable for minorities is already here.In a way, Mr. Trump already got what he wanted. He is the wall.Jorge Ramos is an anchor for the Univision network and the author of, most recently, “Stranger: The Challenge of a Latino Immigrant in the Trump Era.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Michael D. ShearWashington used to know how to have a serious debate about border security.Republicans demanded more money for Border Patrol agents and necessary fences. Democrats argued for better surveillance technology and more resources at the ports of entry. The two parties squabbled over how much to spend, how to pay for it and how it all fit into the broader struggle to overhaul the nation’s broken immigration system.But President Trump has demolished the decades-old, bipartisan understanding about how to bargain over the border. In Mr. Trump’s world, there are no alternatives that can form the basis of a legislative give-and-take, much as his allies and adversaries might hope for them. For the president, the only way to stop what he calls an “onslaught” of illegal immigrants is to erect a massive, concrete or steel barrier across the nearly 2,000-mile border with Mexico.“Drones and all of the rest are wonderful and lots of fun, but it is only a good old fashioned Wall that works!” he tweeted last month.By conjuring images of a towering stone edifice around a medieval fortress — and branding those on the outside as invaders threatening to bring crime, drugs and disease to the United States — Mr. Trump has transformed what used to be a complicated, nuanced negotiation into a take-it-or-leave-it demand, laced with xenophobia, that has shuttered nearly a quarter of the government for weeks.“He turns a debate that is fundamentally about more or less, measured in dollars, and makes it a debate that is wall or not,” said Frank Sharry, a pro-immigration activist who has battled over border security for decades in the nation’s capital. “It’s become cartoonish.”For decades, immigration has been an emotional and bitterly fought battle in Washington and around the country. But even so, there has been a consensus among most Republicans and Democrats that securing the southern border requires a mix of costly strategies. That included a large number of Border Patrol agents posted at key points along the vast stretch of land from San Diego to Brownsville, Tex., fences in urban areas and barriers to stop vehicles from crossing and high-tech surveillance gear to alert the Border Agents to the presence of migrants and drugs.Until Mr. Trump was elected, the sticking points had largely been about other parts of the broader immigration debate — cracking down on people who stay longer than their visas allow; preventing companies from hiring illegal immigrants; expanding opportunities for legal immigration; and providing status to those already in the country illegally, including immigrants brought to the United States as children.Such a comprehensive deal is completely out of reach now. But Mr. Trump’s behavior during the past several weeks suggests that even reaching a smaller, more targeted agreement on security arrangements at the border is more elusive than ever before.The current government shutdown, which began just before Christmas, is now the longest one ever in United States history. In the 22 days since the government shut down, there have been virtually no negotiations by congressional lawmakers or the White House. There have been no marathon, pizza-fueled sessions in back rooms at the Capitol. Lawmakers have not traded detailed proposals with each other. Mr. Trump refused to give an inch in his Oval Office speech, and has spent more time in an extended photo-op at the border than he has at the negotiating table.It has all left veterans of past border debates exasperated and frustrated.“We know how to secure borders,” said Alex Conant, a Republican strategist who was a top aide to Senator Marco Rubio in 2013 when the Republican senator from Florida helped lead the last major, bipartisan effort to overhaul immigration. “The 2013 immigration plan had what everybody agreed was the most effective way possible to secure borders and other points of entry.”With the backing of President Barack Obama, a bipartisan group of eight senators that year succeeded in passing a comprehensive overhaul of the nation’s immigration system. But the legislation, which passed with 68 votes, prompted fierce opposition from conservative Republicans, who condemned it as amnesty for 11 million undocumented immigrants. It was never brought up for a vote in the House.Still, the Senate legislation was an indication of where the two parties could agree on border security. It doubled the number of Border Patrol agents, from 19,000 to almost 40,000, an increase that even the authors of the proposal agreed was overkill but was designed mostly as an enticement to win Republican support.Senators from both parties also agreed on money for technological improvements along the border. The bill allocated $3.2 billion for drones, infrared ground sensors and long-range thermal imaging cameras to give Border Patrol agents advance notice when migrants cross illegally, especially at night. It also included money for an electronic employment verification system for all employers and upgrades at airports to catch immigrants who overstay their visas.And the consensus included some physical barriers — what Mr. Trump might call walls and others would call fencing. Years earlier, the Secure Fence Act of 2006 allocated money to build about 650 miles of barriers along the border. The 2013 bill, had it been signed into law, would have increased that total to almost 700 miles, mostly along the eastern half of the border with Mexico.Almost all of the fencing that Congress has approved has already been built. In populated areas, the fence is tall and steel or chain-link and designed to keep people out. In other places, the barrier is nothing more than short, metal poles spaced out to keep vehicles from driving through, or low, wooden fences that run alongside pedestrian paths.In 2011, a Government Accountability Office report concluded that despite 649 miles of completed fencing, the “the southwest border continues to be vulnerable to cross-border illegal activity, including the smuggling of humans and illegal narcotics.”The report recognized that barriers have mostly not been built in the vast, empty stretches in Texas, where rivers and mountains as natural borders have prevented cars from crossing into the United States and made the trek by foot difficult, if not impossible. But Mr. Trump seizes on conclusions like the G.A.O. report’s about the continued influx of illegal immigrants at the southern border as proof that he is right in demanding a continuous wall.In remarks to reporters after a meeting with Democrats at the White House earlier this month, Mr. Trump insisted that the only way to prevent immigrants from crossing between the 25 official ports of entry is to erect fences everywhere else.“We can’t let gaps. Because if you have gaps, those people are going to turn their vehicles, or the gangs — they’re going to coming in through those gaps,” the president said. “And we cannot let that happen.”But there continue to be questions about the wisdom of building a wall from “sea to shining sea,” even from inside Mr. Trump’s administration.A different G.A.O. report, released last year, examined the preliminary cost estimates by Customs and Border Protection of what it would cost to extend the wall along the entire border. The report criticized the border agency, saying that the cost estimates did not take into account that costs would vary depending on the kind of terrain where they were built.In recent days, the rhetoric between the two sides has become more strident than ever. Mr. Trump and his Republican allies have pointed out that Democrats supported fencing in the past, though they purposefully ignore the context of those votes and the difference between the fencing that Democrats supported and the all-or-nothing wall that the president has demanded.Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has called the wall “immoral,” cementing her position against it.“At this point, the idea we could overlook the rhetoric and get a deal done is much harder,” Mr. Sharry, the pro-immigration activist, said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriThe crowdfunding platform GoFundMe said that more than $20 million in donations were slated to be refunded after a campaign to raise $1 billion for the Trump administration to build a wall on the border with Mexico had fallen well short of its goal.The fund-raising campaign, which began last month, had gone viral as President Trump’s attempt to get Congress to pay for the wall fueled a heated political dispute and resulted in a partial shutdown of the federal government.More than 325,000 donors had pledged in the GoFundMe campaign that the organizer, a veteran from Florida named Brian Kolfage, said would have been used for President Trump’s border wall.But in a note posted on the campaign’s website on Friday, Mr. Kolfage said the federal government would not be able to accept the donations “anytime soon.”Mr. Kolfage said in an interview that donating to the government would have required approval from Congress and that he knew that a Democrat-controlled House would not give its approval.Instead, Mr. Kolfage said, he has formed a Florida-based nonprofit organization called We Build the Wall that will use donations to finance a private effort to build parts of the wall where private landowners allow construction.GoFundMe donors would have to proactively choose to redirect their money to the nonprofit; otherwise, they would be refunded.Mr. Kolfage said he did not know exactly how many donors would want to redirect their money nor how many landowners would want parts of the wall constructed on their properties.“When Americans see us completing real miles of beautiful wall, we know that we will raise the many billions we need to finally secure the entire border,” Mr. Kolfage said on the updated GoFundMe campaign page.The Department of Homeland Security and the Trump administration did not respond to requests for comment on Friday evening on the possibility of a privately funded effort to build the wall.Typically, GoFundMe campaigns can still collect money even if they do not meet their goal.But Bobby Whithorne, a spokesman for GoFundMe, said in a statement on Friday that Mr. Kolfage’s original campaign page had said “If we don’t reach our goal or come significantly close we will refund every single penny” and that “100% of your donations will go to the Trump Wall. If for ANY reason we don’t reach our goal we will refund your donation.”Mr. Whithorne said that since the campaign was not going to reach the $1 billion goal, and that both GoFundMe and Mr. Kolfage had determined the money raised could not be given to the federal government, GoFundMe had contacted all donors to the original campaign about the refund.Donors can ask for a refund immediately, Mr. Whithorne said, but if they do not choose to redirect their money to the nonprofit, they will automatically receive a refund in 90 days.Immigration advocacy groups had condemned the GoFundMe campaign as a xenophobic result of fearmongering about immigrants. Some had started competing fund-raising campaigns to raise money for Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services, a Texas nonprofit known as Raices.Jonathan Ryan, president and chief executive of Raices, said that despite the change in Mr. Kolfage’s campaign, the original critiques of it still stand.“It’s a difference without a change,” Mr. Ryan said. “The wall remains the wrong direction for us as a country, something that will not help advance any of our national interests and that would only serve to further harm vulnerable refugees and immigrants seeking protection in our country.”This week, Mr. Trump appeared on television in an attempt to pressure Congress into paying for the border wall, characterizing the situation at the Mexican border as a “humanitarian crisis” that was exposing the country to crime, drugs and terrorism.Experts, however, point out that migrant border crossings have been declining over about two decades. The State Department said in a recent report that there was “no credible evidence” that terrorist groups had sent operatives to enter the country through Mexico.Follow Mihir Zaveri on Twitter: @MihirZaveri.Advertisement

      By TIM ARANGO

JAN. 11, 2019

For over a century, street vendors have been a forbidden fixture of the city’s kaleidoscopic landscape. Now, as part of California’s push to protect undocumented immigrants, the city has legalized sidewalk vending.
Officials have estimated that there are 50,000 street vendors in Los Angeles, and selling on the city’s sidewalks is often the first profession for newly arrived immigrants. On the streets, many have faced crackdowns by the police and immigration agents. The legalization of street vending, for them, means dignity and security. In recent weeks, I explored the city’s neighborhoods and spoke to vendors about their livelihoods and a changing Los Angeles.In the evenings, vendors at the Guatemalan food market at Bonnie Brae and Sixth Streets, near MacArthur Park, serve up grilled meats, stews and potato tamales.Adriana Morales, 33, sells atole, a Mexican hot drink made of corn, sugar and cinnamon, near MacArthur Park. Nearby, Sergio Rodriguez sells flan. For years, he said, there was “a lot of humiliation from the police.” Now that his profession is legal, he says he feels a sense of “security and tranquility.”“This isn’t your country, go home,” is what Ofelia Ruiz, a vendor at MacArthur Park, said she heard countless times from the police.“It was a lot of years of fighting, of suffering,” said Jose Ugalde, another vendor at the park. “A lot of criminalization.” The history of street vending in Los Angeles has always been tied up with issues of race and class, as well as debates about how public spaces are used in a city that has come to revolve around the automobile.“It became a place that consciously tried to be different from the East Coast, where streets were more raucous,” said Gregg Kettles, a lawyer who studied the issue in the 1990s, when there was a failed attempt to legalize street vending in Los Angeles.Los Angeles had been debating legalization for years. But it was not until former Gov. Jerry Brown signed a bill last year decriminalizing street vending across the state that the City Council voted in November to legalize it.Myra Hernandez became a vendor  after her husband lost his job, and she needed to support her three children. She worried that she would be deported. “It was my biggest fear,” she said. For decades in Los Angeles, crackdowns on vendors often happened in neighborhoods undergoing gentrification, where richer, often white, residents moved in, displacing immigrant communities. “You can’t really disentangle this from debates about gentrification and displacement pressures,” said Doug Smith, legal counsel to a coalition of groups that pushed for legalization in Los Angeles.Caridad Vasquez arrived in Los Angeles a quarter-century ago. Like America today, California then was cracking down on immigration. Ms. Vasquez began selling Mexican food on the streets of Boyle Heights in 2006. Tacos, pozole, mulitas, quesadillas — all old family recipes. “The only people who acknowledged us were the people who wanted to eat the food of their country, which I could provide,” she said. “That is what is satisfying to me, as a Latino.”After a police crackdown in her area in 2008, Ms. Vasquez became an activist pushing for legalization. There was little progress, she said, until Donald J. Trump became president. “When Trump came, the vendors were worried that he was going to take us away from our communities because we are undocumented,” Ms. Vasquez said. She sometimes works with her son-in-law, Al Guillen, who on a recent night served agua fresca.Her activism has given Ms. Vasquez a sense of purpose. For her, legalization is an acknowledgement of the contributions of immigrants to the life of Los Angeles.“Our city is Latino and we bring our cultures with us from other countries,” she said.Tim Arango is a Los Angeles correspondent for The Times.Produced by Crista Chapman and Rebecca Lieberman.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mike HaleAs the television reports a terrorist attack on the continent, Raza Shar, the British-born son of Pakistani immigrants, prepares to go out for a night on the town in London. “Anyone picks on you, don’t be brave,” his father admonishes him. “Tell him you’re a Hindu.” Raza rolls his eyes, nods and recites, “Don’t freak, I’m a Sikh.”That scene, early in the BBC mini-series “Informer” (coming to Amazon Prime Video on Friday), indicates that you’re not watching a typical TV drama about the fight against terrorism. For one thing, Raza, who’s winningly played by Nabhaan Rizwan in his screen debut, is not just the center of the story but its sharpest, wittiest and most appealing character. The cops played by Paddy Considine and Bel Powley, the more established stars of the six-episode series, look dull and washed out by comparison.That contrast runs through the show, in ways that are a welcome change from the genre’s frequent characteristics: piousness, fear mongering, lazy stereotyping. Raza’s family (his mother is played by the vibrant Sunetra Sarker from the high-school dramedy “Ackley Bridge”) and the immigrants’ world of dodgy housing projects and rundown commercial strips radiate warmth and healthy, informed skepticism. In this story, they’re the ones whose way of life is under threat.“Informer” was created and written by Rory Haines and Sohrab Noshirvani, who reportedly met in a screenwriting class at Columbia University. They’ve sold several feature scripts (one was included on the Black List of hot unproduced screenplays), but this is their first project to make it to the screen in 10 years of working together.And they got it about half right. As refreshing a character as Raza is, and as crackling as the scenes in his milieu can be, there’s another chunk of the story — the cop chunk — that appears to have been beyond Haines and Noshirvani. For every cliché and leaden bit of dialogue they kept out of the story of immigrant life, they tossed one into the story of undercover police work and its toll on those who are condemned to do it.That makes “Informer” an up-and-down experience as the complicated, somewhat disjointed story barrels along. Considine, a fine actor in a dour role, plays Gabe Waters, a former undercover cop who now seeks out, trains and handles informants in the South Asian community. Powley plays his new partner, Holly Morten, who’s an equally overworked type, the female cop whose talent is matched by awkwardness and antisocial tendencies.Under pressure to find a terrorist leader thought to be in London, Gabe and Holly stumble on Raza when he spends a night in a holding cell, and pressure him into becoming an informant. He’s appalled at the thought of snitching. But the twist is that his natural charm and quick wits make him good at it, and as he gets deeper into the job during the show’s middle episodes, he begins to take pride in it.Just about everything having to do with Raza, as he insinuates himself with Albanian gangsters and disaffected Muslims, is fun to watch, particularly the scenes pairing Rizwan with Roger Jean Nsengiyumva as Dadir, another son of the projects who isn’t quite as polished as Raza. Not as good but still entertaining is the interplay between Rizwan and Considine, as Gabe instructs Raza in the undercover arts.That leaves the time-consuming but not particularly significant subplots about Gabe’s past undercover work among neo-Nazis (shades of the F.B.I. agent Stan Beeman in “The Americans”) and the problems Gabe’s workload causes in his marriage (Jessica Raine plays his wife). Those are the times for checking email.Despite its lighter than usual touch, “Informer” is not a happy story — flash-forwards to an inquest following a mass shooting give that away from the start. It’s an equal-opportunity dispenser of grief, with nearly everyone ending up a victim in one way or another.But when Rizwan is on screen, it has a bounce, an engaging lightness. Gracefully avoiding the handshake of a female teacher, casting a skeptical eye on Londoners of every description, Raza is always good company.InformerStreaming on Amazon Prime Video on FridayAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders discuss the president’s arguments in his speech designed to win public support for a barrier. To the Editor:Re “Trump Appeals Directly to U.S. for Border Wall” (front page, Jan. 9):In his brief address from the Oval Office of the White House on Tuesday night, President Trump relied on tired stories of immigrant violence that he has often repeated, backed by statistics of dubious validity and delivered in his typically nonemotive style. Mr. Trump’s advisers thought this speech would move the nation and cause a dramatic shift in public sentiment to support the wall or take the onus of the government shutdown off him. They were wrong.Arguably, the speech is simply a sign of his desperation. The man is consumed by an obsessive need to fulfill a campaign pledge punch line. He seems to believe that to abandon the wall might risk losing some of his core base, the same group whose good will he may need to help him overcome a future impeachment challenge.Mr. President, as you have done so many times in your two years as president, your speech further debased the dignity of the office. In the past, Oval Office speeches have been reserved for true national crises, not those manufactured to serve a president’s own political self-interest. As if we really need any more evidence, Mr. Trump once again underscored that he is unfit to occupy the White House.Ken DerowSwarthmore, Pa.To the Editor:Much of President Trump’s Oval Office address focused on the crimes committed by illegal immigrants. We need to remember that wherever you have people, you have sin. Even our outstanding military has a small percentage of personnel who commit crimes while serving overseas. I hope that no one would argue that because of this minuscule minority the military should be forbidden from serving overseas. Therefore, we should be equally sensitive when talking about illegal immigrants. It is wrong to tarnish all because of the crimes of a very small minority.(Rev.) Ian S. MarkhamAlexandria, Va.The writer is the dean and president of Virginia Theological Seminary.To the Editor:Senator Chuck Schumer and Speaker Nancy Pelosi say the border situation is a manufactured crisis. Yet the Democrats have claimed chaos and crises dozens of times since President Trump took office, most of them minor blips long forgotten. Mr. Trump gave the best performance Tuesday night. Usually mocked for his appearance, he looked respectable, focused and earnest. Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi, strangely positioned in a narrow hallway, looked tired, uncomfortable and deer-eyed.Mr. Trump was authentically himself. Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer are just hanging on too long.Mark R. GodburnNorfolk, Conn.To the Editor:The man who sold me my office computer made a lot of unrealistic promises, none of which were fulfilled, and he ended up costing me a lot of money. The man who sold me my car talked me into a lot of needless extras, even though he told me he was doing the opposite. Deception is standard operating procedure in the sales world.Now we have a man in the White House who, after all, got there by being a great salesman. He is trying to sell us something we don’t need just so he can collect his commission, i.e., re-election. I can only hope that people don’t fall for it.Benjamin H. BloomPhiladelphiaTo the Editor:In President Trump’s address to the nation, he stated that migrant children are being used as human pawns by vicious gangs. And that is exactly what Mr. Trump is doing to federal workers, who are receiving no pay during the government shutdown.JoAnn Lee FrankClearwater, Fla.To the Editor:I wonder if President Trump has thought of starting his own GoFundMe page for his wall, as some of his supporters have done. It might save face for him, it would show him who his supporters really are and we could reopen the government.Ganka BrownLaguna Beach, Calif.To the Editor:President Trump has never addressed the nation with such fervor concerning gun control following any of the mass shootings by Americans. It appears that as far as he is concerned, “thoughts and prayers” are enough for those who have lost loved ones to domestic killers. Only those killed by illegal immigrants are worth such public presidential concern.James QuinnLilburn, Ga.To the Editor:Re “Trump Suggests Declaring National Emergency to Skirt Congress on Wall” (news article, Jan. 5): Do we have a national emergency? You bet! Do we need to fix a broken immigration system? Sure, and there is bipartisan support to do so. Is the broken immigration system the national emergency? No. The national emergency is that President Trump has shut down the federal government, causing significant and in some cases irreparable harm to federal workers, private industry that supports the government and our national parks.The national emergency also includes that our system of checks and balances can be upset by one man, Senator Mitch McConnell, refusing to let Congress do its job. The framers of the Constitution never saw this coming. They must be spinning in their graves.Barry LurieBala Cynwyd, Pa.To the Editor:One problem with wall negotiations is they don’t have the right people in the room. They need Rush Limbaugh, Ann Coulter and Fox News. These are the real parties that can give President Trump permission to accept a House Democratic offer to end the government shutdown. They need to give the president reassurance that he won’t be scolded and punished by far-right conservative media.Mark BradyDix Hills, N.Y. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanSAN ANTONIO — Donald J. Trump got Brenda Hernandez’s hopes up in 2016 when he indicated that he had a heart for young undocumented immigrants like her, who were brought into the country by their parents. But her hopes were dashed when Mr. Trump became president and ordered an end to the federal program known as DACA that shields her from deportation.After the president’s latest announcement on Saturday — that he was proposing to end the standoff over the partial government shutdown by, among other things, temporarily extending that shield — Ms. Hernandez just shrugged.“I don’t trust Trump — I don’t believe him,” she said as she hoisted her 3-year-old son onto a swivel chair at the D & H Beauty Salon in San Antonio. The blue-collar shop, with rows of wooden chairs in the waiting area, is a favorite among immigrants in the city. But in the hours after Mr. Trump’s White House address, his latest offer of an immigration deal was finding little support.[Read: In Trump’s Immigration Announcement, A Compromise Snubbed All Around]In exchange for $5.7 billion to erect a barrier along the border with Mexico, Mr. Trump said he would agree to extend protection for three years for the roughly 800,000 immigrants who benefit from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which covers people brought into the country illegally as children. The president held out the hope of similar relief for 300,000 immigrants living in the United States with temporary protected status, known as T.P.S., after fleeing earthquakes and other disasters in their own countries.“I am here today to break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward to end the government shutdown and solve the crisis along the southern border,” Mr. Trump said, calling his offer “a common-sense compromise both parties can embrace.”But many of the clients waiting their turn for a $6 haircut or shave at the D & H salon, in a strip mall in the northern part of the city, greeted Mr. Trump’s announcement with skepticism, if not downright indifference. Most expressed deep reservations about a border wall, deeming it a waste of money.Eliseo Castillo, 60, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, said an extension of DACA’s protections from deportation, and its offer of work permits, could benefit his 26-year-old son. He said his son had relied on the program for years to get a driver’s license and a job and to live without the fear that even a minor misstep, like driving with a broken taillight, could land him in deportation proceedings.But Mr. Castillo, a construction contractor who relies on a steady flow of workers from Latin America, said he wondered what would happen to his business if a reinforced border wall halted the flow of workers. He said he is already having trouble hiring enough laborers.“The fact is, there is not an American who wants to mix cement, do carpentry and heavy work,” said Mr. Castillo, who employs 18 people to lay down foundations for houses in San Antonio’s expansive subdivisions.Mr. Castillo, who wears cowboy boots and bluejeans and keeps his silver hair in a braid, has called Texas home since the 1980s. But he harbors no illusions about legalizing his status, at least as long as Mr. Trump holds the highest office in the land.Waiting his turn for a haircut in paint-splattered trousers that gave away how he earns his living, Jose Ramos, 63, a naturalized American born in Mexico, said he had no faith that Mr. Trump, whose “favorite sport is blaming immigrants for everything, which is not right,” would ever keep his word.“This isn’t a deal,” Mr. Ramos said. “Trump is just offering to give back what he already took away.”Democrats in Washington have criticized the president for offering to extend DACA and T.P.S. protections, when it was he who had ordered those protections revoked. Some have called the offer a nonstarter because it did not include any long-term solutions, like a path to permanent legal status or citizenship for DACA recipients, who are known as Dreamers.But many people in San Antonio never had much faith that such solutions were even possible with Mr. Trump as president.Indeed, some in the city wonder how much the president knows about the border.Speaking with reporters on Saturday, Mr. Trump cited the city as a place that had benefited from building a border barrier. “You look at San Antonio, you look at so many different places, they go from one of the most unsafe cities in the country to one of the safest cities, immediately, immediately,” he said.But San Antonio is 150 miles from the border, and has no wall.Alicia Alaniz, 47, the stylist working at station 7 in the salon, rolled her eyes and said that the only thing she could agree with in Mr. Trump’s statement was the notion that the immigration system was “broken.”“We need immigration reform — it would benefit the country and everyone who lives here,” said Ms. Alaniz, a legal permanent resident who emigrated from Mexico. People just want to work the right way, and support this country that has brought them many blessings.”President Obama introduced DACA in June 2012 as a temporary reprieve for young unauthorized immigrants, at a time when Congress was in a stalemate over immigration policy. To qualify for DACA protection, immigrants must have lived in the United States for much of their lives and meet certain other requirements, like passing a background check and completing high school.On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump vowed to eliminate any program that Mr. Obama had created by executive action, including DACA, a stance that generated deep anxiety among the Dreamers.But in December 2016, shortly after winning election, Mr. Trump softened his position.“We’re going to work something out that’s going to make people happy and proud,” he told Time magazine. “They got brought here at a very young age, they’ve worked here, they’ve gone to school here. Some were good students. Some have wonderful jobs. And they’re in never-never land because they don’t know what’s going to happen.”Once in office, however, Mr. Trump appointed one of the fiercest opponents of the DACA program, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, as his attorney general. Mr. Sessions rescinded DACA in September 2017, but the action was challenged in court and has yet to take full effect, while the courts decide the program’s fate.Without work permits provided under the program, young immigrants would face cascading, and possibly dire, consequences: They would lose their jobs, driver’s licenses and the chance to attend college at in-state tuition rates.Friday was the last day the Supreme Court could accept an appeal and schedule any arguments on the DACA litigation in its current session, and the court let the day pass without addressing the Trump administration’s bid to kill the program. That ensures that DACA will survive at least until the court’s next session, which begins in October.When the administration made its bid to end the program, “I worried about what I would do; I was so sad,” said Ms. Hernandez, who works these days for a casual dining chain known as Zoe’s Kitchen. But with the issue tied up in the courts, she said she has simply had to get on with her life. “Now, I don’t even think about it,” she said.Her DACA permit expires in a year.An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a salon in San Antonio that is popular with immigrants. It is the D & H Beauty Salon, not H & D.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Christina GoldbaumOffering traditional Mexican food and social justice conversations, La Morada in the South Bronx is equal parts restaurant and refuge. Run by an immigrant family from Oaxaca, it is home to both fresh tostadas and a community book exchange.The purple walls are adorned with posters denouncing deportations and neighborhood children’s art projects. And one member of the family once spent two weeks in an Arizona immigration jail — by choice — as a form of political protest.But on Friday, an altercation between one of La Morada’s owners and police officers turned the haven into a hostile flash point, fracturing an often strained relationship between police officers in the 40th Precinct and the community they serve in the South Bronx.The interaction resulted in the arrest of Yajaira Saavedra, a daughter of Natalia Mendez and Antonio Saavedra, who opened the restaurant in 2009. Police also attempted to arrest her younger sister, Carolina, 25, but after Carolina started showing signs of a panic attack, police did not carry out the arrest, according to the Saavedra family.A few hours later Ms. Saavedra, 30, was released and her arrest voided after police determined she had not committed a crime.“As an undocumented immigrant, we are always on our toes when it comes to immigration raids and police raids, ” said Ms. Saavedra, who is a recipient of DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program that protects undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children. “They both create terror.”Accounts of the incident depict an ill-fated encounter between police in the midst of a sting operation that ended with an officer’s safety in jeopardy and a community with deep-seated distrust of all police activity.La Morada is situated in a part of New York City where homicides, fueled by entrenched poverty and rival criminal crews fighting over turf, stubbornly persist.Whereas some police precincts in New York now regularly experience no killings in a given year, the 40th Precinct in the Bronx — made up of the Melrose, Mott Haven, and Port Morris neighborhoods — logged 14 in 2016, six in 2017, and eight last year.To crack down on crime, officers in the 40th Precinct are active in the area but have tried to limit negative interactions with residents to maintain public trust, according to the police.“There has been a significant decrease in the number of interactions with the public while crime has continued to decrease,” according to Lt. John Grimpel, an NYPD spokesman. “We continue to correct conditions while at the same time using discretion and precision.”After the community fallout from Ms. Saavedra’s arrest, the 40th Precinct’s Community Affairs Unit said they were doing outreach to explain what happened and hear community members’ concerns. But that outreach does not always attract the community buy-in the unit needs to change residents’ negative perception of the police.“We put ourselves out there, we make ourselves available to the public, but we don’t receive the participation from the community we would like to see,” said Detective Claudia Mera of the Community Affairs Unit.The unit holds a meeting once every three months and invites area residents to bring up concerns.Still, there is no specific plan to address the incident at La Morada.Members of the community believe the tactics they use have created a schism between law-abiding residents and police officers who treat all residents as a possible threat.“I’ve been working in and with this community for two decades now and police brutality has always been an issue, relationships between the police department and the community have always been an issue,” said Alyshia Galvez, 45, a cultural anthropologist who works in the South Bronx. “The way Yajaira was disrespected is the same way other members of the community are disrespected on a daily basis.”For the South Bronx’s immigrant community, a negative experience with the police is not just an issue of respect and trust. It also brings fears for their immigration status. For Ms. Saavedra, her arrest made that fear palpable.“It doesn’t matter if I live in a sanctuary city,” she said. When the incident occurred, “I was just thinking that this could lead to my deportation.”It all began around 4:30 p.m. last Friday when an undercover officer from the Bronx narcotics unit made a felony purchase of narcotics on the street outside the restaurant and the individual from whom she purchased the drugs began acting aggressive, according to a police spokesman.Noticing what appeared to be an arrest happening outside the restaurant, Ms. Saavedra began filming the incident on her phone, mindful of the stories she hears often from friends and customers of what she describes as prejudiced police practices in the neighborhood.The police do “not have a good relationship with the community,” Ms. Saavedra said. “We see them making unfair arrests, racially profiling us, so I started recording so if that happened it could be exposed.”As the undercover officer entered La Morada for her own safety, another plainclothes officer approached Ms. Saavedra’s brother, Marco Saavedra, and asked him to momentarily close the restaurant to new customers. The siblings instead asked that the officers leave, explaining they did not want to be involved in any police activity.“I could tell the officer was getting frustrated, and that’s when he said he would ‘flip the place upside down’ if we didn’t do what he told us to,” said Mr. Saavedra.The police officers then left the restaurant, returning minutes later with additional officers and handcuffing Ms. Saavedra.Ms. Saavedra was trembling as she described her encounter on Monday morning after community members filled the restaurant offering their support.“La Morada is like the watering hole for this community, it’s our meeting point, and this family is an inspiration for us,” said Vanna Valdez, a 31-year-old resident who has lived in the neighborhood her entire life.Ms. Saavedra’s parents opened La Morada in 2009, after living in the United States for 17 years. When they came in 1992 after crossing the Sonoran Desert, their plan was to stay only one year. But settling into Washington Heights, her mother, Natalia Mendez, was impressed by the schools and the neighborhood so she sent for her children to come join them and begin life anew.When she and her husband, Antonio, opened the restaurant on Willis Avenue it became a neighborhood sensation. Longtime neighbors and resident artists became regulars. Mayor Bill de Blasio stopped by. The five moles Ms. Mendez prepared for her customers soon earned glowing reviews from critics who praised the family’s ability to bring both Oaxacan food and its sense of selfless reciprocity to the neighborhood.But the critical need the restaurant filled — providing neighbors a safe, positive, community-oriented space — also underscored the dangers that surrounded it.The attention Yajaira’s arrest garnered has made the incident a rallying cry for neighbors who have experienced similar interactions with the police and feel their voice is rarely heard.On Friday residents arrived at the precinct to demand her release while others went to La Morada to comfort her family members, who were shocked by the way the officers treated Yajaira.“This is the kind of thing I would see in Mexico not here in the United States, a country that respect laws,” said Antonio Saavedra, Ms. Saavedra’s father. “Where is the law? I don’t see it here right now.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Wednesday. 🎉 Happy one-year job anniversary to Andy Byford, president of New York City Transit.Weather: Raw and gray, with a high of 39. Mystery precipitation tomorrow night — if snow, about an inch, turning to rain.Alternate-side parking: in effect till Monday.It’s a wall. It’s made of steel. It was built because immigrants kept coming.But it’s not the wall you’re thinking of.We’re talking about the American Immigrant Wall of Honor at Ellis Island: 770 stainless steel panels engraved with the names of about 775,000 immigrants.Each name on the wall was paid for by one of those immigrants’ family or friends.“They want to honor the people who came before them at the site of that person’s first steps in America,” said Stephen A. Briganti, president of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation Inc.The monument serves as both tribute to immigrants and fund-raiser for the Ellis Island National Museum of Immigration and the Statue of Liberty. In the 1980s, President Ronald Reagan wanted to preserve the site, but without spending taxpayer money. The solution: build a wall and charge people to add names to it. It opened in 1990.It costs $150 to put one name on the wall and $225 for two names, with more expensive options as well (because this is, still, New York City). So far, the wall has raised more than $80 million.The wall is filling up — the number of inscriptions rose sharply in 2017 and again last year. There are only five empty panels left, enough for about 3,300 names.The kinds of names placed on the wall have shifted. At first, they were mostly immigrants who had passed through Ellis Island, “primarily Eurocentric,” Mr. Briganti said.More recently, there has been an uptick in names from Latin America, Africa and Asia. Also, the museum expanded its focus to include “those who endured forced migration from slavery,” and the “earliest settlers, the American Indian,” the foundation’s website says.Despite the federal shutdown, you can still visit the wall, along with the rest of Ellis Island and the Statue of Liberty. New York State and private donors have been keeping them open. As of Tuesday, National Park Service’s recreation fees, along with private donors, are keeping them open.Remembering Carol Channing. Colleagues recall a tireless, down-to-earth Broadway performer.Did the former Mexican president take a $100 million bribe? That’s what a witness in the El Chapo trial claimed.Did the N.Y.P.D. spy on Black Lives Matter activists? The police said they “could neither confirm nor deny” it. A judge rejected that answer.The Met Opera has a gay conductor. Our classical music editor explains why Yannick Nézet-Séguin’s new job is a big deal.Hammer attack: A man wielding a hammer killed a chef and injured two others at a restaurant in Sheepshead Bay.Weinstein lawyer quitting: Harvey Weinstein’s lawyer Benjamin Brafman is said to be withdrawing from his New York rape case.50 Jesuit priests are named as abusers. They include priests who worked at top private schools.Legalizing marijuana. Congestion pricing. A “Green New Deal.” In case you haven’t noticed, Gov. Andrew Cuomo is tacking left.All-Star accused of abuse: The retired Yankees’ relief ace John Wetteland was charged with sexually abusing a young boy at his home in Texas. [Daily News]Ring the alarm: Annoying alarms are returning to subway emergency exits to help curb fare beating. [New York Post]This Brooklyn councilman is a punk: How Justin Brannan went from the hard-core music scene to elected office. [Real Clear Life]Icons in your subway mural: Sonia Sotomayor, James Baldwin, Celia Cruz and others are featured in the 167th Street station in the Bronx. [Hyperallergic]F.D.N.Y. dog featured in Vogue: It’s about time this firehouse dog in Brooklyn got recognized. [via Instagram]Service journalism: A NY1 reporter identified the Chinese restaurant frequented by the Wu-Tang Clan back in the day. [via Twitter]That’s how many tourists visited New York City in 2018, a record high.The figure is expected to rise again in 2019, thanks to the 50th anniversary of Stonewall, and WorldPride celebrations, slated for this June. My colleague Patrick McGeehan has the story.“I’m going to run for president of the United States because as a young mom I am going to fight for other people’s kids as hard as I would fight for my own.”— Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, announcing her candidacy on the “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert.”Unleash your inner Sherlock Holmes at a Wild West-themed interactive murder mystery at Brooklyn Bazaar. 8 p.m. [$22]The technologist An Xiao Mina discusses her book “Memes to Movements” at Bluestockings. 7 p.m. [Free]Some of the city’s best voguers strike poses at House of Yes in Bushwick. 10 p.m. [$10, $15 at door]The cut-paper artist Deborah Ugoretz talks about her work at the Museum at Eldridge Street. 6 p.m. [Free]A panel on race and gender in American politics at the Brooklyn Historical Society. 6:30 p.m. [$5]— Iman StevensonEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.She sang. She tweeted. She conquered.Rachel Zegler was, until last month, a typical — if overly talented — high school teenager in New Jersey.Then on Dec. 14, she tweeted a 30-second clip of herself singing a song from “A Star Is Born.”Her singing was so good, Ms. Zegler has now been cast to play Maria in Steven Spielberg’s upcoming remake of “West Side Story,” reportedly beating out 30,000 others who auditioned.The classic Romeo and Juliet story set in New York begins filming this summer.If you want to better acquaint yourself with Ms. Zegler before her film debut, look no further than the Twitter feed that launched her to stardom.You can find her singing a song from the Broadway musical “ Waitress,” or the song “Sonya Alone” from “Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812.”0Ms. Zegler also likes to dress as stage and screen characters for Halloween: Michael Scott from “The Office;” Robert Downey Jr.’s character in “Iron Man;” and the lovable, gruff Luke Danes from “Gilmore Girls.”As for “West Side Story,” Ms. Zegler has said she never could have imagined playing such a prominent role. She did, however, have ideas about who should play Maria (and Tony, and Riff, and Anita and all the Sharks and Jets).It’s Wednesday — your big break is coming soon.Dear Diary:It was a hot, humid August afternoon in 1974, the summer between my sophomore and junior years in college. I was working as a bank messenger, traveling between branches to pick up the day’s records for delivery to the bank’s computer center.I was on an uptown No. 4 train with the guy who would succeed me. I was training him before I went back to school. He was wearing a pith helmet to combat the heat and humidity.New York City’s subway cars typically lacked air-conditioning in those days, and the windows would often be opened to allow the occasional breeze.That was the case in the car that my successor and I were on. We were sitting on a long bench seat, open windows over our heads.The train pulled into the Wall Street station. Passengers got off and passengers got on and the car doors closed. And then, as the train lurched forward, a hand reached through an open window and snatched the pith helmet off my colleague’s head.Everyone in the car was silent, stunned by the brazenness of what had just happened. And then everyone in the car broke into laughter and applause at the nerve and dexterity required to carry out such a masterful theft.— Patrick M. Malgieri New York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article described incorrectly the language in which the song “Sonya Alone” is written. While parts of the song were performed by Rachel Zegler’s Spanish, the song, as written, is not bilingual.An earlier version of this article incorrectly described the funding source that have been keeping Ellis Island and the Statue of Liberty open. New York State and private donors had been keeping them open, but are not currently. As of Tuesday, National Park Service’s recreation fees, along with private donors, are keeping them open.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFact CheckPresident Trump revived an old and still unproved rumor that hints that Islamic migrants were entering the United States through Mexico and could pose a terrorism threat.By Linda QiuBorder rancher: “We’ve found prayer rugs out here. It’s unreal.”  Washington Examiner   People coming across the Southern Border from many countries, some of which would be a big surprise.Starting as early as 2005, politicians have claimed to have discovered discarded prayer rugs — and perhaps even Qurans or “a lot of stuff written in Arabic” — at the southern border, hinting without evidence that Islamic migrants were entering the United States through Mexico and could pose a terrorism threat. Mr. Trump’s tweet revived this long-running and still unproved rumor. He was citing an interview in The Washington Examiner, a conservative newspaper, with one anonymous female rancher who lives on the border.“I’ve never seen any Middle Easterners — I’ve seen prayer rugs out here — but I’ve never seen any myself,” the woman, whose face is obscured, said in a videotaped interview.Asma Afsaruddin, a professor of Islamic studies at Indiana University, said that prayer rugs were meant to be kept clean and doubted that they would be deserted by practicing Muslims.“Standing in a clean place is a requirement of Islamic prayer,” she said. “Many of these rugs have images of the Kaaba in Mecca and other religious symbols on them. For all these reasons, they would not be just casually tossed around or carelessly discarded to be desecrated by others.” The rancher also told The Examiner that she had heard from Border Patrol agents that migration from countries other than Mexico “has really increased in the last couple years, but drastically even in the last six months.” “Chinese, Germans, Russians, a lot of Middle Easterners,” she continued. “Those Czechoslovakians they caught over on our neighbor this last summer.”Czechoslovakia split into two countries in 1993. Of the more than 300,000 people apprehended at the southern border in the 2017 fiscal year, fewer than one-half of 1 percent were from the countries the rancher listed (1,364 from China, two from Germany, eight from Russia, 61 from countries the State Department deems the Middle East, one from the Czech Republic and one from Slovakia).“There’s a lot of people coming in from not just from Mexico,” the rancher added. “People, the general public, just don’t get the terrorist facts of that.” That claim echoes earlier ones from Mr. Trump: baseless warnings that “unknown Middle Easterners” had infiltrated a migrant caravan and that terrorists were pouring across the southern border.Nowhere in the White House’s 25-page counterterrorism policy, released in October, was the threat of terrorists infiltrating the nation’s southwest border raised. And the State Department, in a September report, said there was “no credible evidence” that terrorist groups had sent operatives to enter the United States through Mexico.The Department of Homeland Security did not respond to requests for evidence of Mr. Trump’s claims. The Washington Examiner report, like most of its predecessors over the past decade, did not include any photographic evidence of the prayer rugs in question and largely relied on hearsay. “Along the Mexican border there have been stories of suspicious items picked up by local residents, including Muslim prayer rugs and notebooks written in both Arabic and Spanish,” former Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, warned in a March 2005 speech.Later that year, former Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, told CBS that, during a visit to the border in Arizona, “we’ve found copies of the Quran, we have found prayer rugs, we have found a lot of stuff written in Arabic, so it’s not just people from Mexico coming across that border.”In 2014, David Dewhurst, then the lieutenant governor of Texas, invoked prayer rugs found “on the Texas side of the border in the brush.” PolitiFact Texas rated his claim “Pants on Fire,” and noted that it could find only one photo of a purported prayer rug, presented by the conservative news outlet Breitbart. That photo, eight scholars and religious figures said, looked nothing like a prayer rug, and it appears to have been removed from the current version of the Breitbart article. (Perhaps, suggested Gawker, the photo was actually of an Adidas soccer jersey.)In 2015, the right-wing outlet Judicial Watch reported, based on unnamed sources, that Muslim prayer rugs were recovered at an Islamic State training camp eight miles away from the United States-Mexico border. Federal and local officials in the United States and Mexico denied those claims.These persistent rumors promote the message that Muslims inherently “constitute a menace and danger to our safety,” Professor Afsaruddin said. “Remember Sinbad and his flying rug in the Arabian Nights? Maybe that is what they are remembering — after all, the Arabian Nights ‘prove’ that this is how Arabs and Muslims get around — talk about enduring stereotypes from the world of fantasy!” The most recent news reports about prayer rugs on the southern border surfaced last summer — describing a scene in the fictional action film “Sicario: Day of the Soldado.”Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email factcheck@nytimes.com.Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy any reasonable metric, “mass” immigration is a myth. The reality is that America desperately needs to pick up the pace of immigration for its economic health.By Shikha DalmiaMs. Dalmia is a senior analyst at Reason Foundation, a writer at Reason magazine and a columnist at The Week.President Trump has shut down the government to get money for a border wall that he says will stop illegal immigration. But the fact of the matter is that that’s not all he wants to stop. During the three-day shutdown last January, he demanded a 40 percent reduction in legal immigration, arguing that America has been swamped by immigrants. “There’s a limit to how many people a nation can responsibly absorb into their societies, ” he has declared.He is not alone in invoking this boogeyman. That America is being overwhelmed by a flood of immigrants has become conventional wisdom across the political spectrum, presented in books from, on the right, Reihan Salam of National Review, the son of Bangladeshi immigrants; in the center, Francis Fukuyama of Stanford, whose mother immigrated from Japan; and on the left, Jefferson Cowie of Vanderbilt University, who actually counsels his fellow progressives not to fear more immigration.But by any reasonable metric, the idea that America is experiencing mass immigration is a myth. The reality is that we desperately need to pick up the pace of immigration to maintain our work force and economic health.You could argue that mass immigration — a vague term with no set definition — is happening in Lebanon and Jordan, primary destinations for refugees escaping Syria’s civil war. Lebanon, which had about 4.4 million people in 2010, has admitted in just a few years around one million Syrian refugees, which works out to around 23 percent increase in its population.In America, by contrast, there are about 44 million foreign-born people who now constitute about 13.7 percent of the population, according to the Pew Research Foundation. This is close to the historic high of 15 percent at the turn of the 20th century. Why is that considered a meaningful benchmark? Because at that time the United States, responding to nativist and union pressure, embraced strict border controls, essentially ending what had until then been an open borders policy.Literacy tests were instituted in 1917, and the 1924 Johnson-Reed Act imposed national-origins quotas limiting visas to 2 percent of the total number of people of each nationality in the United States as of the 1890 census. The purpose of this legislation was to cut back immigration overall, especially from Eastern Europe and Asia — and it succeeded spectacularly.Congress finally eliminated these quotas, which had widely come to be regarded as racist, in 1965, and immigration subsequently picked up. But immigration opponents have made the 15 percent foreign-born figure a tipping point, as if it were based on science instead of being an arbitrary historical event. If it were indeed a tipping point, countries would regularly experience a backlash once the immigrant population approached that level. That is far from the case.America’s share of the foreign born ranks 34th among 50 wealthy countries with a per capita gross domestic product of over $20,000. The United States netted five new immigrants — authorized and unauthorized — per 1,000 people from 2015 to 2017, United Nations figures show. Compare that to the figures in two other English-speaking liberal democracies: Canada let in eight (and just announced that it’s going to admit over a million new immigrants over three years), and Australia 14. All in all, the foreign-born are now over 20 percent of Canada’s population and 28.2 percent of Australia’s (more than double America’s figure). And yet they haven’t inspired the sort of public condemnation of immigration that often occurs in the United States. America has also taken in a relatively modest numbers of immigrants over the last half-century. In 1965, when Congress got rid of national-origin quotas, America’s foreign-born made up around 5 percent of the population. Over two decades from 1980 to 2000, this proportion rose to 11.1 percent, from 6.2 percent, not insignificant but not particularly noteworthy.But then the rate of increase slowed to a crawl, rising from 11.1 percent in 2000 to 12.9 percent in 2010 and then barely inching to 13.5 percent in 2016. In other words, in six years, America’s foreign-born population inched up 0.6 percent. Yet the more America’s (modest) immigration decelerates, the more the mass immigration trope accelerates.A good yardstick for whether a country is admitting too many or too few immigrants — beyond the political mood of the moment — is its economic needs. If America were admitting too many immigrants, the economy would have trouble absorbing them. In fact, the unemployment rate among immigrants, including the 11 million undocumented, in 2016, when the economy was considered to be at full employment, was almost three-quarters of a point lower than that of natives. How can that be evidence of mass immigration?The truth is that America is a low-immigration nation. Demographic trends in America point to a severe labor crunch that’ll become a huge bottleneck for growth unless the country opens its doors wider.It has long been clear that the dropping fertility rates of native-born white Americans meant that the generations coming after the millennials were on track to be much smaller. From 2015 to 2035, the number of working-age Americans with domestic-born parents is expected to fall by eight million. Furthermore, the Census Bureau in 2017 quietly revised downward its population forecast for 2050 by a whopping 50 million people from its 2008 estimates, as Jack Goldstone, a political demographer at George Mason University, pointed out. Why? Because immigration from Mexico dwindled after the Great Recession at the same time that Hispanic fertility rates dropped by a quarter as well. At the current rate that America is admitting immigrants, this means that the total work force will grow only 0.3 percent per year. Unless American birthrates pick up suddenly and expand the work force — an unrealistic assumption given that the country just set a record for low fertility — or the productivity of its dwindling work force quickly doubled, only slightly less unrealistic, says Mr. Goldstone, the United States will be staring at real G.D.P. growth of less than 1.6 percent per year in less than a decade, all else remaining equal.America should be admitting a million more immigrants per year — more than double the current number from now until 2050. This still won’t add up to mass immigration because it would put America’s foreign-born population that year at around 26 percent, less than Australia’s is today.Fifteen years ago when I was writing about immigration for the conservative editorial page of The Detroit News, the myth that America was being overwhelmed by immigrants had retreated mostly to nativist activist circles. Just because it has spread now does not mean it’s true. It’s a myth that should be killed before it kills the American dream.Shikha Dalmia is a senior analyst at Reason Foundation, a writer at Reason magazine and a columnist at The Week.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — Immigrant advocates denounced it as cruel. The conservative right howled that it was amnesty.What President Trump billed on Saturday as a compromise to end the country’s longest government shutdown pleased neither the Democratic congressional leaders whose buy-in he needs to strike a deal nor the core supporters whose backing has always been at the heart of his insistence on a border wall.Instead, in offering temporary protections for about one million immigrants at risk of deportation in exchange for funding for a wall, Mr. Trump did something rarely seen during his presidency. He tried to reach beyond his base of supporters — which polls have begun to show is losing patience with him as the partial shutdown drags into its fifth week — and speak to a broader swath of Americans.The Saturday afternoon speech from the West Wing was an attempt by Mr. Trump to, at the very least, shift the narrative of the past several weeks and show that rather than spoiling for a longer shutdown fight or making unreasonable demands, he was looking for a broadly acceptable way out of a morass he once boasted he was proud to wade into.“I think you could tell by the president’s remarks today,” Vice President Mike Pence said, “that we’re reaching out.”Yet in seeking to inch toward the center, Mr. Trump alienated portions of his hard-right base, the core supporters he most depends on and the group he and his closest aides have most feared losing. That raised the possibility that, in his zeal to get out of an intractable situation, he may have landed himself in the worst of all worlds, without a clear solution or the support of his most ardent followers.[Read: Trump’s Deal Meets With Skepticism Among Immigrants in Texas]The tensions and anger over the policy have been quietly playing out in the West Wing as well, as Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, fended off Stephen Miller, the architect of much of Mr. Trump’s immigration agenda. Mr. Kushner has long been a proponent of protections for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, while Mr. Miller has pressed for aggressive measures to crack down on both legal and illegal immigration.In recent days, as White House officials had been working out the details of the compromise, Mr. Miller intervened to narrow the universe of immigrants who would receive protection, according to people familiar with the internal discussions who described them on the condition of anonymity.While the original idea had been to include protections for as many as 1.8 million undocumented immigrants eligible for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program known as DACA that protected those illegally brought to the United States as children, Mr. Trump ultimately proposed shielding only the 700,000 who are enrolled.Mr. Kushner conceded in a briefing after the president’s speech that he did not see the proposal as a solution for the DACA program, which Mr. Trump moved to rescind in 2017.“At this moment in time,” Mr. Kushner said, “this is a good path forward.”Many conservatives did not share that view.“Trump proposes amnesty,” the conservative commentator Ann Coulter said on Twitter. “We voted for Trump and got Jeb!” she added, referring to Jeb Bush, who challenged Mr. Trump for the Republican nomination in 2016 and supported a broad immigration overhaul that would have given undocumented immigrants a path to legal status.Still, in the eyes of many White House officials, the prospect that Mr. Trump could use the proposal to shift blame for the shutdown and pressure Democrats to end the impasse was worth trying. Mr. Pence argued on Saturday that the speech was a “sincere effort” by Mr. Trump to break the logjam, and he and other White House officials suggested that the measure could attract enough support to succeed from centrist Democrats fed up with the shutdown and willing to side with Republicans.But such a coalition did not appear to be forming, and courting one bears considerable risk for a president who is most comfortable when he is defying convention, eschewing compromise and being hailed as a hero by supporters who often equate bipartisan deal making with weak-kneed capitulation.The vast majority of Democrats knocked the approach. While many of them have pressed for measures to protect DACA recipients and immigrants living in the United States under Temporary Protected Status enacted when their countries were destabilized by war or catastrophe, most regard the proposal he put forth on Saturday as woefully inadequate. It offers only three years of protections for the DACA recipients and those who hold T.P.S., which the Trump administration has also moved to end for several countries.“This is not an amnesty bill,” Mr. Pence said. “There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal.”That was high on Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s list of reasons to call the plan “unacceptable.”That is unlikely to matter to the president. Despite saying publicly last month that he would be proud to own a shutdown over the wall, and privately displaying confidence that his base would stick with him through the fight, Mr. Trump has been dismayed to find otherwise in recent days.An NPR poll released last week showed Mr. Trump’s approval ratings down and the first cracks in backing among critical supporters, including whites without a college education and white evangelicals.Such pressure from what he has called the forgotten men and women who elected him and chant “Build! The! Wall!” at his arena rallies has swayed Mr. Trump before, including last year, when the conservative news site Breitbart branded him “Amnesty Don” for considering a similar deal that would have provided $25 billion in wall funding for a path to legal status for those the DACA program was created to help. The president ultimately abandoned that agreement, concerned about angering his base and after Mr. Miller and others advised him he should insist on additional immigration restrictions.On Saturday night, Breitbart panned Mr. Trump’s latest idea with the headline “Three-Year Amnesty, Most of Border Remains Open.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe 1920s weren’t just gin joints and jazz. Anti-immigrant racism was all the rage. By Lisa McGirrMs. McGirr is a professor of history at Harvard and the author of “The War on Alcohol: Prohibition and the Rise of the American State.”On Jan. 16, 1919, Nebraska became the 36th state to ratify the 18th Amendment to the Constitution, which banned the manufacture, sale, import or transportation of intoxicating liquors. The Prohibition era had begun. Prohibition looms large in the national imagination even today as the era of gangsters and gin joints. Less often do we reflect on what motivated the country to adopt it and maintain it for 14 years. While the country faced a real problem of excessive drinking, powerful anti-immigrant hostility is what drove this monumental act of constitutional overreach. Today, as we find ourselves in the midst of another fight over immigration, it is worth revisiting the role that nativism played in driving, and later enforcing, Prohibition. The consequences of that battle reverberated for decades to come. It sparked a vast expansion of the repressive capacities of the federal government and a rise of right-wing extremism, led by a revived Ku Klux Klan. It also forged a new political coalition that would bring ethnic working-class voters into the Democratic Party, where they would remain for much of the century.Temperance and Prohibition had been popular causes throughout the 19th century, but supporters didn’t reach a critical mass until the era of mass immigration at the turn of the century. With more than a million men and women coming to the United States in 1907 alone, anti-liquor crusaders railed against a “foreign invasion of undeveloped races.” The boisterous drinking culture of the ubiquitous working-class saloon, dominated by immigrant men, seemed to make manifest the dangers mass immigration posed to a white native Protestant American way of life.During World War I, the Anti-Saloon League, the self-declared Protestant Church in action, fanned nativist flames: With the large brewing companies in the hands of German immigrants, the league declared the abolition of “the un-American,” “home wrecking, treasonable liquor traffic” the most patriotic act. Congress concurred, sending the 18th Amendment to the states on Dec. 22, 1917. Ratification sped through the states in record time, stunning its ecstatic supporters: “The rain of tears is over. … Hell will be forever for rent,” the flamboyant evangelical preacher Billy Sunday proclaimed. The Woman’s Christian Temperance Union, the powerful grass-roots female reform organization at the core of the anti-liquor crusade, raised an American flag at its campaign headquarters in Evanston, Ill. Church bells rang at many Protestant churches in celebration of “Uncle Sam’s knockout blow … that set John Barleycorn and all his cohorts to the mat.”The utopian hopes of Billy Sunday and his ilk that the 18th Amendment would turn “our prisons into factories” quickly evaporated. The vast and powerful federal agencies in charge of policing Prohibition as of January, 1920, along with state and local enforcement, overcrowded court dockets, changed legal doctrine and flooded prisons, but they did little to meet Prohibitionists’ almost impossible ambitions.Newly hired and poorly trained Prohibition agents, along with local and state police, targeted violators at the margins, but they lacked the capacity, and at times the will, to go after powerful crime kingpins. Chicago’s Al Capone, Ohio’s George Remus, New York’s Arnold Rothstein and Seattle’s Roy Olmstead amassed large fortunes in the profitable illicit drink trade, oiling their violent supply rings with payoffs to judges, senators and officers on the beat.At the same time, a small group of affluent, urban, pace-setting adventurers rebelled against the law in subterranean night-life spaces, sparking innovative dance styles and providing new audiences for the experimental sounds of jazz. Prohibition’s cultural earthquake, centered in the mixed-sex and mix-raced night-life venues in cities like New York and Chicago, reverberated in smaller towns and cities through Hollywood movie plots, tabloid newspapers and radio. It was, according to one New York opponent, a cultural “civil war.” In 1922, President Warren Harding declared the lack of observance a national scandal. The men and women who had worked so hard for the law’s passage feared a vicious conspiracy to discredit and overthrow Prohibition. Anxieties over immigration, urbanization and the erosion of the cultural dominance of Anglo-Saxon Protestantism swelled even further in face of a new spirit of self-expression. With Prohibition newly enshrined in the Constitution, anti-liquor crusaders demanded better, stricter enforcement and harsh punishment for violators. Roy Haynes, the federal Prohibition commissioner, blasted the “dry rot” and evil influences that had to be “torn out” by citizens militant in the law’s defense. A volunteer enforcement army coalesced. The Anti-Saloon League and the Woman’s Christian Temperance Union forged two of its phalanxes, adopting an increasingly shrill tone toward immigrants. Compliance among this “great problem” class required coercion, with “officers of the law” acting as “schoolmasters.” The W.C.T.U. in 1923 called for the deportation of noncitizens convicted of Prohibition violations. Despite evidence that foreigners were less likely than native-born Americans to violate the law, anti-liquor crusaders marshaled alternative facts: “Seventy-five percent of liquor law violators are foreigners,” the Indiana W.C.T.U falsely claimed.As enforcement failures multiplied, anti-liquor crusaders found a powerful new ally in the so-called second Ku Klux Klan. Established in 1915 by William Simmons in Atlanta, the organization snowballed after 1920 in the Midwest and West. Its savvy promoters, Elizabeth Tyler and Edward Young Clarke, former fund-raisers for the Anti-Saloon League, drew in a bumper crop of new recruits with their anti-Catholic, anti-immigrant, white supremacist message. Other forms of postwar social conflict aided the growth of the Klan, but nothing did more than the 18th Amendment to turn it into a dynamic social movement. The Klan and its female affiliate, the Women of the Ku Klux Klan, recruited heavily from the nation’s white Protestant Prohibition organizations, promising militant action to ensure the law’s enforcement. Not surprisingly, the Klan targeted the drinking of those they identified as enemies of “100 percent Americanism” — Catholics, foreigners and African-Americans — and often gained a foothold in white Protestant evangelical communities with its promise to put bootleggers and moonshiners out of business. If officers of the law could not or would not do their duty, the Klan vowed to step in, often with the support of the local government.The actions of the citizen Prohibition army in Williamson County, Ill., a hardscrabble rural mining region 300 miles south of Chicago, provides a striking example. The head of the Williamson County board of supervisors and a local Klan leader, Sam Stearns, and a Methodist pastor and Klan ally named Philip Glotfelty, along with members of the local Ministerial Association, had high hopes that Prohibition would usher in a new moral tenor in their community. Before Prohibition, the region’s largely native white Protestant miners might stop for a whiskey after a hard day’s work in the ramshackle bars that dotted the county, ignoring their pastors’ warnings against the “devil’s drink.” In Prohibition’s wake, drinking continued in new roadhouses and moonshine joints. Two rival criminal rings, the Birger and Shelton gangs, set up shop to supply the thriving black-market trade.Glotfelty and Stearns, backed by the county’s leading businessmen and Protestant pastors, mounted a law and order crusade. They held public meetings to raise the alarm. Italian and French immigrants, largely Catholic, had been drawn to Williamson County by opportunities to work in the coal industry, and Glotfelty blamed the men “imported from across the sea” for bootlegging. He confidently predicted that all members of the local Catholic church would be in jail before “the foundations of the new church were built.” Glotfelty’s words resonated among the region’s native white Protestant miners, whose tenuous hold on economic security was increasingly eroding. A strike to protest wage cuts had ended in open class warfare in 1922. Williamson County’s moral leaders focused native Protestant miners’ grievances on another threat: the immigrants who competed for mining jobs. The local Klan ranks swelled with the promise to “clean up” the community.Representing the Klan, Stearns traveled to Washington to plead for support for its local anti-liquor crusade. Commissioner Haynes agreed to supply federal agents to lead the raids if Stearns could provide the foot soldiers. On Dec. 22, 1923, the first raid, in the town of Herrin, got underway. Some 500 citizen volunteers deputized by Haynes’s agents stormed scores of roadhouses and homes. A second raid two weeks later overwhelmingly targeted Italian immigrants, who protested rough treatment, theft and planted evidence. The Italian vice-consul in Springfield, Ill., denounced the “terrorization of foreign residents of Herrin” to the State Department. National Guard troops were called in to stem the chaos and violence. Eventually, the federal government ended its authorization for the volunteer army, refusing “reinforcements from the Ku Klux Klan or any other volunteer organization.”But the citizen army was not easily deterred. Stearns gleefully declared, “We’ve got the bootleggers on the run now, but we want to give them their hats, so they can keep on running.” Over the following months several more raids, each increasingly reckless, targeted Williamson County’s immigrants. On Feb. 2, 1924, S. Glenn Young, a former Prohibition agent who had been recruited by the Klan, led more than 1,000 men in raids against roadhouses and homes, setting fire to some of them. This time the county’s French immigrant community joined the Italian immigrants pleading for help from their consul. With Klan and anti-Klan forces battling in the streets, the Illinois governor declared martial law. The orgy of violence resulted in 14 deaths, but it also eroded Klan support among the public. Klan candidates had swept into office in Herrin in 1924, but one year later they lost power. The newly elected mayor promised to bar Klan supporters from parading in masks. But before the collapse of its power, the local Klan had partially accomplished its goals: More than 50 roadhouses and illicit drink spaces had been shut, and many of Williamson County’s immigrants heeded the Klan’s call to leave the county. Of the 11,000 foreign born and their children in 1920 in Williamson County, only 8,174 remained a decade later. The mobilization of Prohibition’s citizen’s enforcement army in Williamson County was replicated on smaller scales in many towns and cities. From Orange County, Calif., to Birmingham, Ala., the Klan buttressed local police in anti-liquor raids, targeting groups they perceived as enemies of “100 percent Americanism.” That campaign of terror was one of the law’s most devastating consequences. But immigrants and their children also despised the criminalization of their cultural rituals and leisure habits, the violence that illegal supply rings brought to their neighborhoods and the selective enforcement that disproportionally targeted poor violators. One Chicago immigrant leader summed up the passionate sentiments of many, blasting Prohibition as the “most vicious and tyrannical piece of legislation enacted anywhere in the world.”The battles over Prohibition erupted in the 1928 presidential election. The Irish Catholic governor of New York, Al Smith, ran for president on the Democratic ticket opposing the law and championing tolerance. Smith attracted large numbers of urban, white ethnic voters to the party for the first time, along with a small segment of African-Americans. Though Herbert Hoover won handily, the ethnic, urban, industrial working class Smith brought to the party stayed there, forging an important part of Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal coalition. One of Roosevelt’s first acts in office was to sign the beer bill, re-legalizing the industry in March of 1933, pending the repeal of national Prohibition.Roosevelt adopted creative solutions to the Great Depression, building on the new federal authority and resources won during the war on alcohol. Prohibition, as elite conservative critics had rightly feared, cracked the door open toward other forms of regulation. Not only did Prohibition forge the edifice of the federal penal state, but growing numbers of Americans looked to the federal government for solutions to social and economic problems. One Roosevelt supporter summed up this logic when he called for a four-day week at a six-day wage when he wrote to the presidential candidate: “the Eighteenth Amendment made it possible for the government to take over enforcement of Prohibition. Surely, capable leaders could soon get another amendment to the Constitution passed that would empower Congress to shorten the work day for all labor throughout the nation.”Prohibition had lasted less than 15 years, but its legacies outlasted its repeal and achieved almost the opposite intended by its most ardent supporters. Hoping to make liquor less desirable by shutting saloons, the anti-liquor crusaders ushered in the mixed-sex, alcohol-laced, night-life leisure Americans have known ever since. The ban did not end crime and corruption, as the crusaders claimed it would, but drove it to higher levels, leading to a new and permanent role for the federal government in crime control. And Prohibition’s titanic overreach led to the enfranchisement of new immigrant groups under the banner flag of Prohibition opposition. The era’s heightened nativism had not cowed Americans immigrants, their children or their allies. Instead they reached out for a fuller place in national political life to forge a more pluralist, tolerant, equitable country. The tyranny of Billy Sunday and his ilk proved short-lived.Lisa McGirr is a professor of history at Harvard and the author of “The War on Alcohol: Prohibition and the Rise of the American State.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a prominent gangster in New York during Prohibition. It was Arnold Rothstein, not Arthur Rothstein. It also misstated the name of a group that advocated for Prohibition. It was the Woman's Christian Temperance Union, not the Women's Christian Temperance Union.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhy a brave Democrat should make the case for vastly expanding immigration. By Farhad ManjooOpinion ColumnistThe internet expands the bounds of acceptable discourse, so ideas considered out of bounds not long ago now rocket toward widespread acceptability. See: cannabis legalization, government-run health care, white nationalism and, of course, the flat-earthers. Yet there’s one political shore that remains stubbornly beyond the horizon. It’s an idea almost nobody in mainstream politics will address, other than to hurl the label as a bloody cudgel.I’m talking about opening up America’s borders to everyone who wants to move here.Imagine not just opposing President Trump’s wall but also opposing the nation’s cruel and expensive immigration and border-security apparatus in its entirety. Imagine radically shifting our stance toward outsiders from one of suspicion to one of warm embrace. Imagine that if you passed a minimal background check, you’d be free to live, work, pay taxes and die in the United States. Imagine moving from Nigeria to Nebraska as freely as one might move from Massachusetts to Maine.[Farhad Manjoo answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]There’s a witheringly obvious moral, economic, strategic and cultural case for open borders, and we have a political opportunity to push it. As Democrats jockey for the presidency, there’s room for a brave politician to oppose President Trump’s racist immigration rhetoric not just by fighting his wall and calling for the abolishment of I.C.E. but also by making a proactive and affirmative case for the vast expansion of immigration.It would be a change from the stale politics of the modern era, in which both parties agreed on the supposed wisdom of “border security” and assumed that immigrants were to be feared. As an immigrant, this idea confounds me. My family came to the United States from our native South Africa in the late 1980s. After jumping through lots of expensive and confusing legal hoops, we became citizens in 2000. Obviously, it was a blessing: In rescuing me from a society in which people of my color were systematically oppressed, America has given me a chance at liberty.But why had I deserved that chance, while so many others back home — because their parents lacked certain skills, money or luck — were denied it?When you see the immigration system up close, you’re confronted with its bottomless unfairness. The system assumes that people born outside our borders are less deserving of basic rights than those inside. My native-born American friends did not seem to me to warrant any more dignity than my South African ones; according to this nation’s founding documents, we were all created equal. Yet by mere accident of geography, some were given freedom, and others were denied it.“When you start to think about it, a system of closed borders begins to feel very much like a system of feudal privilege,” said Reece Jones, a professor of geography at the University of Hawaii who argues that Democrats should take up the mantle of open borders. “It’s the same idea that there’s some sort of hereditary rights to privilege based on where you were born.”I admit the politics here are perilous. Although America’s borders were open for much of its history — if your ancestors came here voluntarily, there’s a good chance it was thanks to open borders — restrictions on immigration are now baked so deeply into our political culture that any talk of loosening them sparks anger.People worry that immigrants will bring crime, even though stats show immigrants are no more dangerous than natives. People worry they’ll take jobs away from native workers, even though most studies suggests that immigration is a profound benefit to the economy, and there’s little evidence it hurts native workers. And if we worry that they’ll hoover up welfare benefits, we can impose residency requirements for them.But these are all defensive arguments, and when you’re on defense, you’re losing. For opponents of the president’s xenophobic policies, a better plan is to make the affirmative case for a lot more immigrants.Economically and strategically, open borders isn’t just a good plan — it’s the only chance we’ve got. America is an aging nation with a stagnant population. We have ample land to house lots more people, but we are increasingly short of workers. And on the global stage, we face two colossi — India and China — which, with their billions, are projected to outstrip American economic hegemony within two decades.How will we ever compete with such giants? The same way we always have: by inviting the world’s most enthusiastic and creative people — including the people willing to walk here, to risk disease and degradation and death to land here — to live out their best life under liberty.A new migrant caravan is forming in Honduras, and the president is itching for the resulting political fight. Here’s hoping Democrats respond with creativity and verve. Not just “No wall.” Not just “Abolish ICE.” Instead: “Let them in.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Farhad Manjoo became an opinion columnist for The Times in 2018. Before that, he wrote the State of the Art column. He is the author of “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.”  @fmanjoo • Facebook AdvertisementPast TenseMore than 50 years of eight million people standing, folding and eating together.Getting pizza and hanging about on MacDougal Street in Greenwich Village. Aug. 2, 1963.CreditCreditJohn Orris/The New York TimesSupported byBy Korsha WilsonPizza can be a great divider in New York. In fact, one of the easiest ways to get into argument (without end) is to name a “best pizza in the city.” But at the same time, pizza — specifically the reheated, foldable, portable slice — is one of the city’s great uniters. There is no culinary experience that New Yorkers share more widely and more unanimously than the slice joint. Like catching a sunset over the skyline or stepping in an icy curbside puddle, the slice joint has, since its beginnings more than 50 years ago, become common currency.The price has changed over the decades, but the scene and staging remain much the same. Look at the crowd of New Yorkers and tourists alike bundled in winter coats on a recent Wednesday night at Joe’s Pizza on Carmine Street. The pies at Joe’s, which opened in 1975, are considered among the city’s best. See how the customers rotate in a perfect line through the door and up to the glass case, their orders ready and their money in hand. “Three dollars,” the pizza man says briskly, after he has placed the requested slice into a decked oven. Out come the hot, bubbling triangles of cheese and sauce on thin, pliable crust. Once their slices are ready, the diners — if so formal a word even applies — grab a place at the counter in the window or push out the door, slice in hand, on to wherever the evening may take them. This is the “New York style.”The origin story of New York pizza starts with large waves of Italian immigrants settling in the city in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. By 1920, roughly a quarter of the 1.6 million Italian immigrants in the United States were living in New York, establishing enclaves in Manhattan, Brooklyn and the Bronx. Such neighborhoods were home to the first pizzerias, like Lombardi’s in Little Italy, which opened on Spring Street in 1905. The namesake of the Neapolitan immigrant Gennaro Lombardi, the restaurant used a coal-fired oven to create pizzas with puffy, charred crusts and a bubbling layer of tomato sauce and cheese that made it one of the most popular restaurants in Little Italy. As if in biblical succession, as apprentices left to start their own pizza operations, Lombardi’s begat Totonno’s in Coney Island, John’s in Greenwich Village and Patsy’s in what is now Spanish Harlem. These are the four acknowledged prewar pizza pillars in the city. (Though none of them was a slice joint in the current sense.)Hot, filling and eaten with the hands, pizza elicited breathless coverage from The Times fairly early on, as food writers marveled at the appealing combination of ingredients and convenience. By 1947, the paper was fully sold. “A round of dough is baked with tomatoes and anchovies and cheese atop, cut into wedges, then eaten with the fingers between gulps of wine,” the food editor Jane Nickerson enthused. “The pizza could be as popular a snack as the hamburger if Americans only knew more about it.” Nine years later, The Times’s Herbert Mitgang contemplated the reasons for pizza’s popularity, writing, “The guess is that a number of Americans of Italian origin, aided by advertising and refrigeration, have made pizza as delectable as such other postwar imports as Lollobrigida” — referring to Gina, the saucy Roman film star. The Neapolitan-style pie became a chic dinner-party staple that could also be supplemented with a salad for a filling, family meal. But one innovation would change how New Yorkers enjoyed pizza forever.Frank Mastro, an Italian immigrant and businessman, saw the potential for pizza to be as popular in America as the hot dog. He just had to figure out a way to make it quicker and cheaper for both restaurant owners and diners. So in the mid-1930s, he devised a gas pizza oven that maintained optimal temperatures even as the door was opened over and over.  Although it is hard to pinpoint when pizza was first sold by the slice, the introduction of the gas oven with multiple decks gave New Yorkers the option of enjoying a crisp-bottomed slice either as a full meal or a substantial snack between meals as they moved around the city. Pizza shop owners no longer needed to learn how to operate a coal-fired oven, meaning pizza could be made quicker and with less training. By the 1960s, the slice joint boom was on. And it is the slice joint that really turned pizza from an Italian food in New York City into a New York City food — a meal shared across neighborhoods, ethnicities and age groups, equally at home in the Bay Ridge of “Saturday Night Fever” as in the Bedford-Stuyvesant of “Do the Right Thing.”This proliferation was also helped along by the same thing that brought pizza to this country in the first place: immigration. In the ’60s and ’70s, waves of immigrants from Eastern Europe, the Caribbean and Latin America began joining the work force and landing in food service roles, where the barrier to entry was much lower than in other fields.As one of the standard-bearers of the current slice-joint renaissance, Scarr Pimentel remembers his spot on 138th Street and Broadway. “Kids like me pretty much grew up in pizza shops,” said Mr. Pimentel, whose family moved to New York from the Dominican Republic. “If you had five bucks you could have a slice, a soda and some ice cream. It was a full meal and sometimes the owner would slip us an extra slice or something.” Mr. Pimentel opened his own pizza shop in 2016, the sleek and retro Scarr’s Pizza on the Lower East Side. His slices and pies are made with organic flour, high-quality tomatoes and cheese and carefully sourced (often organic) toppings, but the slice-joint spirit holds true. “Who would’ve thought a kid like me from the Dominican Republic would own a pizza shop in New York City one day?” he added.John Kambouris immigrated to Washington Heights in 1965 from a small Greek island about 200 miles east of Athens. “I had $10 in my pocket,” he said from behind the counter of Pizza Palace on Dyckman Street, which he has owned since 1979, when he bought the business from an Italian couple he knew from the neighborhood. “They say the Italians bring the pizza here, but we put our culture on it.” In the 1960s this area was Irish and Jewish, he explained. Today, the neighborhood is home to a large Caribbean population, including a large concentration of immigrants from the Dominican Republic. “I love what I’m doing … we’re making pizza that people want and I don’t have to be Italian to make good pizza,” Mr. Kambouris said, before noting, “I’ve put three kids through college off of this shop.”It’s in hundreds of shops like his around the city, many no bigger than subway cars, where you’ll find New Yorkers shoulder to shoulder, eating slices in near silence. “Teens, Wall Street guys, guys camped out with a shopping cart, a pizza place is the most diverse space in the city,” said Colin Atrophy Hagendorf, author of “Slice Harvester: A Memoir in Pizza” and host of the Radio Harvester podcast. “Inside a pizzeria that dream of diverse New York City is a reality. I think that’s such a beautiful thing.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — President Trump attacked Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Sunday for rejecting his proposal to end the partial government shutdown, as he and Republican leaders in Congress sought to put Democrats on defense, a place they have rarely been during the shutdown stalemate.In a series of morning tweets, Mr. Trump said Ms. Pelosi had behaved “so irrationally” in spurning his offer to restore the temporary protections he took away from some undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border wall. He also pushed back against conservative critics who called the plan amnesty for immigrants who came to the United States illegally.Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, plans to bring up legislation as early as Tuesday that would wrap Mr. Trump’s proposal into a broader package that would include billions of dollars in disaster relief and immediately reopen the government, an aide said. The move is intended to ratchet up pressure on Democrats, who have insisted they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump until the shutdown is over.“President Trump has put forward a serious and reasonable offer to reform parts of our broken immigration system and reopen government,” Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republican leader, said on Twitter. “The moment now turns to Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer. The country is watching.”But there was little indication from Democrats, who have denounced Mr. Trump’s plan as “hostage taking,” that they would abandon that position.“If he opens up the government, we’ll discuss whatever he offers, but hostage taking should not work,” Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, told reporters in New York on Sunday, adding, “It’s very hard to negotiate when a gun is held to your head.”With the shutdown now in its fifth week, and 800,000 federal employees still furloughed or working without pay, pressure is rising on both Republicans and Democrats to end it. If it lasts until Friday, Congress will be forced to reckon with another grim milestone: Affected workers will miss their second paycheck.[Read: Trump’s Deal Meets With Skepticism Among Immigrants in Texas]As Republicans go on offense in the Senate, Democrats will stay on offense in the House, where they have already passed a string of government funding bills that Mr. McConnell — who has largely remained on the sidelines during the shutdown debate — has refused to take up. On Wednesday, Ms. Pelosi plans to bring up a package of six bills to fund shuttered government agencies, ignoring Mr. Trump’s requests.The measures gained approval last year from Republicans on the House and Senate Appropriations Committees; in effect, Ms. Pelosi will be daring Republicans to vote against their own legislation. Democrats will also begin talking more about their own vision for border security — a shift in strategy for a party that has focused mostly on the economic and personal toll of the shutdown.Amid the posturing, however, there were some hints that Mr. Trump’s proposal, which he unveiled in a 13-minute White House address on Saturday, might open the door to talks that could result in a deal. Vice President Mike Pence, in an appearance on “Fox News Sunday,” suggested that Mr. Trump’s proposal might be amended on the Senate floor.“Well, of course,” Mr. Pence said, when the host, Chris Wallace, asked if he was open to negotiation. “The legislative process is a negotiation.”And Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, a centrist Democrat, described Mr. Trump’s plan as “a starting point” on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” though he added, “You’ve got to start by reopening the government.”The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected.Polls show the public largely blames Mr. Trump for the shutdown, and his advisers have been searching for an exit strategy. Last week, Mr. McConnell told Mr. Trump, Mr. Pence and White House advisers that he needed the president to put forth a public offer so he could bring legislation to the floor.“McConnell’s view of shutdowns is when you’re in one, it’s a great opportunity for both sides to get things,” said Scott Jennings, a Republican strategist and former McConnell aide who remains close to him. “And what I think is dumbfounding everyone here is: Why aren’t the Democrats treating it as a situation where they could get something? The president has opened the door for them to get something, so let’s talk.”Throughout his administration, Mr. Trump has sought to limit both legal and illegal immigration. Last year, he moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, which shielded from deportation hundreds of thousands of young unauthorized immigrants known as Dreamers. He also revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., for some undocumented immigrants from Latin American and African countries.In the plan he unveiled on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore the DACA and T.P.S. protections for three years. But Democrats say that is a nonstarter, because it does not offer a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers, and because Mr. Trump is simply giving back protections that he himself took away.The McConnell aide, Don Stewart, said the Republican legislative package would include seven appropriations bills that would fund government agencies that have been partially closed for a month.“The legislation that the majority leader will bring to the floor this week would both reopen the remaining portions of the government, fund disaster relief, fund border security and address immigration issues that both Republicans and Democrats would like to address — all in one bill,” Mr. Stewart said.Mr. McConnell would need votes from all Republicans and seven Democrats for the package to pass. But only a handful of Democrats in Republican-leaning states might feel pressured enough to cross the aisle. A spokesman for one of them, Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, said Mr. Manchin — who just won re-election — would remain undecided on the Republican proposal until he saw it.In broadening the package beyond Mr. Trump’s plan, Mr. McConnell may be trying to pick up additional Democrats — especially those who are eager to vote for disaster relief.“He’s starting to move the pieces around to see what’s going to fly and what’s not going to make it,” said Jim Manley, who was a top aide to Harry Reid, the former Democratic leader from Nevada. “He’s trying to put the pressure back on Democrats, and he’s trying to see what the possibilities of a deal are by putting a larger package there. He’s trying to see how large the package has to be to bring Democrats on board.”But Mr. Trump seemed to be holding fast. He retweeted a series of endorsements of his proposal from Republican lawmakers on Sunday evening, and earlier in the day, he took aim at Ms. Pelosi and pushed back against conservative critics who have described the plan as amnesty for undocumented immigrants.“Nancy Pelosi and some of the Democrats turned down my offer yesterday before I even got up to speak,” Mr. Trump wrote. “They don’t see crime & drugs, they only see 2020 — which they are not going to win. Best economy! They should do the right thing for the Country & allow people to go back to work.”Mr. Trump went on: “Nancy Pelosi has behaved so irrationally & has gone so far to the left that she has now officially become a Radical Democrat. She is so petrified of the ‘lefties’ in her party that she has lost control...And by the way, clean up the streets in San Francisco, they are disgusting!”And to his conservative critics, Mr. Trump wrote: “No, Amnesty is not a part of my offer. It is a 3 year extension of DACA. Amnesty will be used only on a much bigger deal, whether on immigration or something else. Likewise there will be no big push to remove the 11,000,000 plus people who are here illegally — but be careful Nancy!”Ms. Pelosi took to Twitter to strike back. “@realdonaldtrump, 800,000 Americans are going without pay. Re-open the government, let workers get their paychecks and then we can discuss how we can come together to protect the border,” she wrote, using the hashtag #EndTheShutdown.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhy is Congress allowing private contractors to exploit detained immigrants?By Victoria LawMs. Law is a journalist and author of a book about incarcerated women.There are more than 48,000 people being held in immigrant detention in more than 200 facilities in the United States. More than two-thirds of them, according to the National Immigrant Justice Center, are confined by private companies, working on contracts with the federal government. Those numbers have ballooned in the last two years under the Trump administration, drawing new attention to the terrible conditions detainees are living in.One feature of privately run centers — the Voluntary Work Program — is the subject of six separate lawsuits, which say that privately run immigrant detention centers are coercing detainees into working for a dollar a day and punishing those who don’t. The lawsuits demand, among other things, that the practice stop and that detained workers be paid minimum wage.Congress should not wait for these lawsuits to be decided. Democrats have won the House, so even if they can’t stop the president’s anti-immigrant push, they can push to raise the obsolete and exploitative $1-a-day wage. And, just as they have rejected Mr. Trump’s request for $5.7 billion for the border wall, they should reject the request for $2.8 billion to expand detentions to 52,000 beds.Prison labor is nearly as old as the American prison system itself, and it is protected by the 13th Amendment, which abolished slavery and indentured servitude except as punishment for a crime. This exception means that prisons can require their prisoners to work, even without compensation. But immigrant detention is civil confinement, not criminal. People held in these facilities are not charged with any crime; they are being detained while awaiting asylum or deportation hearings. Under Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Voluntary Work Program, however,  immigrant detention centers need not pay workers more than one dollar a day, a rate set by Congress in 1950 and codified in the 1978 Appropriations Act. It has never been increased or adjusted for inflation.Detainees say that the Voluntary Work Program is not really voluntary. If they attempt to take a day off or refuse to work, staff members punish them by withholding essential items, threatening to move them to more dangerous housing units or locking them in their cells. Wilhen Hill Barrientos, a Guatemalan asylum seeker and a plaintiff in the lawsuit against CoreCivic’s Stewart Detention Center in Georgia, said that he had to either work for a few cents an hour or go without basic things like soap, which he could get only through the commissary.According to Mr. Barrientos’s lawsuit, one night a guard awakened him for the 2 a.m. shift in the kitchen rather than his scheduled 10 a.m. shift. When he refused, the guard threatened to move him to a violence-plagued dormitory, so Mr. Barrientos acquiesced.Martha Gonzalez, from Mexico, was detained in three different CoreCivic prisons in Texas from May 2016 to August 2017 as she awaited a T-1 visa, which is granted to victims of human trafficking. She worked in the kitchen and sorted clothing. When she once tried to take a day off, she told me, the prison staff then punished her by refusing to give her basic hygiene supplies such as sanitary pads and toothpaste. CoreCivic did not respond to Ms. Gonzalez’s allegation but said that its work programs are “completely voluntary” and that “detainees are subject to no disciplinary action whatsoever if they choose not to participate in the work program.”A representative for GEO Group called the lawsuits’ allegations baseless, saying that “this is a strictly voluntary program” and that GEO Group provides hygiene products free of charge upon request. Private corporations hold less than 10 percent of the nation’s prison population, but more than 70 percent of people in immigration detention. The government pays them a fixed daily price per person, so they have an economic incentive to run their facilities as cheaply as possible, relying on detainees to cook meals, mop hallways, scrub toilets, mow lawns and even cut hair.In 2016, CoreCivic’s revenue from Stewart (where Mr. Barrientos and other detainees worked in the kitchen) was about $38 million; in 2017, contracts with ICE comprised 25 percent of its $1.76 billion in revenue. For GEO Group, ICE contracts comprised 19 percent of its $2.26 billion revenue in 2017. At the same time, the detention centers provide the barest minimum to detainees, while charging them exorbitant rates for necessities. In immigrant detention, a phone call can cost as much as $12.75 for 15 minutes. Four ounces of toothpaste sells for $11.These two corporations have become the giants of the private prison industry. Between 2016 and 2018, CoreCivic spent $2.8 million in lobbying and over $700,000 on campaign contributions while GEO Group spent $4.4 million in lobbying and $2.5 million on campaign contributions. Each company also donated $250,000 to Mr. Trump’s inauguration.They blame the 1978 Appropriations Act for the low wages. As GEO Group puts it, “The wage rates associated with this federal government program are stipulated under long-established guidelines set by the United States Congress.” That is true. If Congress instead forced these companies to pay the federal minimum wage, their profit margins would drop dramatically.But the dollar-a-day rule has stalwart defenders in Congress. In response to a class-action lawsuit in which formerly detained immigrants said they were forced to work, 18 Republican congressmen sent a letter on March 7, 2018, to the attorney general at the time, Jeff Sessions, the head of ICE and the secretary of the Department of Labor, exhorting those agencies to help GEO Group defend itself. “Unless your agencies act to intervene in these lawsuits, immigration enforcement efforts will be thwarted, and the end result will be millions of dollars of unnecessary loss to the federal government in terms of additional expenses for immigration detention,” they said. In other words, they worried that if the private prisons were forced to pay reasonable wages, the companies would pass on those costs to the federal government.The lawsuits are not pushing to end the Voluntary Work Program altogether. They understand that it allows people who are in detention to buy things they need and keep in touch with their families by phone, which becomes even more urgent as the number of families torn apart by detention increases. Instead, the lawsuits are pushing for an end to exploitation and a fair wage for their work.Yes, paying detainees a minimum wage would make these facilities much more expensive to operate. But if privately run detention centers rely on a business model based on forced labor, perhaps they should not exist at all.Victoria Law, a journalist, is the author of “Resistance Behind Bars: The Struggle of Incarcerated Women.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this article misstated CoreCivic's total revenue in 2017. It was $1.76 billion, not $444 million.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEl EspaceThis week in El Espace: returning to the place you left as a child, the end of the L.A. teachers’ strike and the triumph of Yalitza Aparicio.By Concepción de LeónEl Espace is a column dedicated to news and culture relevant to Latinx communities. Expect politics, arts, analysis, personal essays and more. ¿Lo mejor? It’ll be in Spanish and English, so you can forward it to your tía, your primo Lalo or anyone else (read: everyone).On trips back to the campo where my parents grew up, and where I spent the first few years of my life, I rarely need to introduce myself. Many stop me on my way to the colmado or a relative’s house to ask, “¿Y es que tú no te acuerdas de mi?” But I never do recognize them. I left when I was a toddler, so while they see a lineage in my face — my mother’s eyes, my father’s nose — they are strangers to me. And while my aunts, who grew up carrying bath water in buckets from the river and walking around barefoot in the grass, can name all the flowers (framboyán, buganvilla, cayena) in the vast, lush backyard of their childhood, I have to ask questions, taking notes on my iPhone so I can learn to describe this place.For an immigrant (or a descendant of one) growing up in America, it can be difficult to determine when or where one’s story begins. Many feel groundless and displaced, existing between two cultures and languages. The Chicana scholar Gloria Anzaldúa described this feeling as a third space, the “borderlands,” in her groundbreaking work of feminist and cultural theory, “Borderlands/La Frontera: The New Mestiza.” A common refrán puts it more plainly: ni de aquí, ni de allá (neither from here, nor from there).Most Latinos feel a strong connection to their country of origin: More than 60 percent describe themselves in relation to their ancestral homeland (as Mexican or Colombian-American, for example) or engage in transnational activities like sending money back home, calling family members regularly or traveling back to visit. In my experience, though, it always feels like a negotiation of two identities. In New York, I am a black Dominican; in Santo Domingo, I am an American.Geraldine Isabelle Abad, a Dominican-American who plans tours for people visiting Cuba and the Dominican Republic, said that taking solo trips to her family’s country of origin has helped her integrate the different parts of her heritage. “It was eye-opening,” she said in a recent call. “It made me understand that a Dominican is not just one thing. We’re complex and diverse. There are different cultures here.” She mentioned the community of hikers she encountered while hiking Pico Duarte, the Caribbean’s highest summit, and the social justice activists creating safe spaces for queer artists in the capital as examples of the country’s cultural diversity.Being apart from her family living in the Dominican Republic wasn’t easy. “Our community values here are so strong, and that’s a gift, but it makes it hard for us to grow our own self-awareness,” Ms. Abad said. And for women in particular, there’s “that fear that a woman should have somebody to accompany her. It’s almost radical for a woman to be alone and traveling. People are afraid for us.” She hopes to dispel the misconception among Dominican-Americans that the island is unsafe outside of Punta Cana, so she created the Dominican Diaspora Heritage Tours, a culturally immersive experience curated for Dominicans living elsewhere.Reconnecting with our native countries on our own terms is one way to merge our present-day selves with our family history. A friend from New York offered another idea: She has only felt fully herself within the four walls of her apartment, the home she built after leaving home. Maybe belonging isn’t found, but crafted.Here are more stories to read this week. SUPREME COURT SIDESTEPS DECISION ON DACAThe program will remain in place (for now), and a decision about its future likely will not be made until 2020.INDIGENOUS REPRESENTATION AT THE OSCARSYalitza Aparicio, the breakout star of Alfonso Cuarón’s “Roma,” received an Oscar nomination for her role in the film. It’s kind of a big deal.A WIN FOR L.A. TEACHERSThe strikes that began last week ended on Tuesday, after the Los Angeles teachers’ union reached an agreement with the school district that will add more support staff to schools and place a cap on class sizes.EL CHAPO AND THE BORDER WALLPresident Trump recently claimed that a border wall could stop the flow of drugs into the country from Mexico, but 10 weeks of testimony at the trial of the drug lord Joaquín Guzmán Loera, better known as El Chapo, tell a different story.HEIGHTENED TENSIONS IN VENEZUELATens of thousands of Venezuelans hit the streets on Wednesday to protest President Nicolás Maduro, heeding the call of a young leader for the opposition party, Juan Guaidó, who declared himself interim president after criticizing Maduro as an illegitimate dictator. Guaidó has so far gotten backing and recognition as the formal leader from various counties in Latin America as well as the United States.As we reflect on Martin Luther King Jr.’s legacy this week, this essay about “the talk” many black people receive from their parents about how their skin color will affect their lives feels particularly poignant. “You are going to have to fight to be treated equal. Even to be treated fairly,” the writer’s father told her when she was 13. But in addition to offering “a warning,” he also encouraged her to see her race as a point of pride. “I want you to remember, you are lucky to be black,” he said. “Be proud, but be careful.”Do you have suggestions for El Espace? Want to receive it as a newsletter? Let me know: elespace@nytimes.comConcepción de León is the digital staff writer covering literary news and culture for the Books Desk. Separately, she launched El Espace for the Styles section, a weekly column in which she writes about news and culture for a Latinx audience. She previously worked for Glamour magazine.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matt Stevens, Emily S. Rueb and Elisha BrownOn the night of Jan. 10, someone walked into a home tucked near the forests that blanket Nevada’s northwest border and fatally shot 56-year-old Connie Koontz, the authorities said. Three days later, again under the cover of darkness, someone walked into another Douglas County home about a mile up the road and shot and killed Sophia Renken, 74.Then, three days after that, Washoe County sheriff’s deputies searched a home about 40 miles farther north on La Guardia Lane. There, they found 81-year-old Gerald David and his wife, Sharon David, 80, both with gunshot wounds; they, too, were dead.For nine days, law enforcement officials from across the region banded together to both reassure and ready residents who had been shaken by what prosecutors would call “brutal murders.” Lock your doors and windows, the authorities said; turn on outdoor lights; keep your cellphones handy.By Sunday — the 10th day of regionwide panic — they were able to deliver some calming news: A suspect was in custody; they believed the man, who they have varyingly identified as Wilbur or Wilber Martinez-Guzman, was responsible for all four homicides.Mr. Martinez-Guzman, who is either 19 or 20 years old, had been arrested at a home on Saturday afternoon on felony burglary and immigration charges, Sheriff Ken Furlong of Carson City said, though prosecutors added that they intended to charge him with the murders. Law enforcement officials did not discuss the motive in the killings.Immigration officials, Sheriff Furlong said, had notified law enforcement that Mr. Martinez-Guzman had been in the Carson City area for about a year, but “was likely in the United States illegally and was detainable.” Jail records show that he is under a hold from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which Sheriff Furlong said prevented him from being released on bail.The agency said Wednesday that Mr. Martinez-Guzman “is a citizen of Guatemala who ICE believes is unlawfully present in the United States.” There were no prior criminal or immigration encounters noted in his history, officials said, while also confirming that they had placed a so-called detainer on him.“Four people in Nevada viciously robbed and killed by an illegal immigrant who should not have been in our Country,” President Trump said in a tweet on Monday. “We need a powerful Wall!”The disclosure that Mr. Martinez-Guzman may be in the United States illegally has thrust the case into a set of high-profile murders that Mr. Trump has leveraged to bolster his arguments about immigration and the need for a wall along the country’s southwest border. The dispute over funding for such a wall remains at the center of a government shutdown.The president has previously called attention to the murder of Mollie Tibbetts, a 20-year-old college student, who the police have said was killed by an undocumented immigrant from Mexico. (Her father has called on people to not exploit her death to promote a political agenda.) Mr. Trump also said it was “time to get tough on Border Security” after the authorities arrested a man in California in December who they said fatally shot a police officer and had entered the United States illegally.In the meantime, friends and family of the four Nevada victims — some of whom flanked the police at the Sunday news conference — were left to grieve.Eddie England, 70, who met Ms. Renken through the Carson Valley chapter of the Antique Automobile Club of America, said in an interview on Tuesday that four lives could have been saved if Mr. Martinez-Guzman had been expelled from the country.He described Ms. Renken as an independent and tough woman who drove a 1930s Ford Model A. Still, she moved to Gardnerville in Douglas County a few years ago to be closer to people — a situation she felt would be safer, Mr. England said.“And this,” he said, “is what happened to her.”“It’s hard to take.”Alan Squailia, a friend of Mr. David, described Gerald and his wife as “salt-of-the-earth people,” who were active community servants and animal lovers.“If you needed a friend, and needed someone to help you, it was this couple,” Mr. Squailia, 75, said.Looking at a photograph of Mr. Martinez-Guzman, Mr. Squailia said he could imagine that Mr. David would have invited the young man into his home if he had been looking for help.“The whole city of Reno is devastated over this,” he said. “We still can’t wrap our minds around it.”Doris Burke contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey FortinThree men who were convicted of plotting to blow up a Kansas apartment complex where Somali refugees lived have each been sentenced to at least 25 years in prison, the Justice Department said on Friday.“The defendants in this case acted with clear premeditation in an attempt to kill innocent people on the basis of their religion and national origin,” Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting United States attorney general, said in a statement. “That’s not just illegal — it’s morally repugnant.”During the trial last year in Wichita, Kan., prosecutors portrayed the men as aspiring domestic terrorists who were preparing to bomb the apartment complex in Garden City, Kan., which is home to a makeshift mosque and a community of Somali immigrants. The men, who called themselves “the Crusaders,” were arrested about four weeks before Nov. 9, 2016, the date they had picked for the bombing.Prosecutors said the men had also considered attacks on other targets, including elected officials and churches that helped refugees. In secretly recorded conversations, the men could be heard making demeaning comments about Muslims; one called them “cockroaches.”On Friday, Curtis Allen, 51, was sentenced to 25 years in prison. Gavin Wright, 53, was sentenced to 26 years. Patrick Stein, 49, was sentenced to 30 years.In April, the men were convicted of conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction and conspiracy against rights, which the Justice Department considers a hate crime. Mr. Wright was also convicted of lying to the F.B.I.“These defendants planned to ruthlessly bomb an apartment complex and kill innocent people, simply because of who they are and how they worship,” Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, said in the statement.Kari Schmidt, a lawyer for Mr. Wright, said his sentence significantly exceeded typical sentences for cases like these. “We believe certain trial rulings materially impaired presentation of the full story to the jury,” she added. “Mr. Wright will appeal his conviction.”Lawyers for the other men did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Saturday. But they have previously argued that their clients had been manipulated or prodded by the F.B.I., and that they had been unfairly targeted for exercising their rights to free speech and gun ownership.The trial focused on evidence from a paid F.B.I. informant who had infiltrated a militia group that included the three men and secretly recorded their conversations.The proceedings took on political significance in part because the F.B.I. has been criticized frequently by President Trump, and because it took place during an era of escalating threats against racial and religious minorities.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylensThrough photographs of celebration, mourning and everyday life in his parents’ hometown, Manila, Lawrence Sumulong searches for what his life could have been.Photographs by Lawrence SumulongText by Matthew SedaccaBefore you are born, and until you die, life is more or less a series of contingencies. That missed light signal may have kept you from being run over by a truck, while that crinkled lotto ticket in the laundry, had you looked, could’ve been your path to absurd riches. And then there’s your parents, who in any infinite number of selfish, altruistic and unforeseen ways, could have set you out on a different path altogether.Lawrence Sumulong, a Filipino-American photographer, went down this theoretical rabbit hole in “Dead to Rights,” his long-term project documenting his parents’ hometown, Manila. And, in an alternate reality, it’s his home, too.“My life was determined, essentially, by my parents, in that it could have gone the other way, and that I could have been born in the Philippines,” Mr. Sumulong said. “And so throughout the entire story, I’m trying to see what came about while I was away.”In 1980, Mr. Sumulong’s parents fled the Philippines — and dictatorial rule of Ferdinand Marcos — and wound up in New Jersey. Nearly three decades later, Mr. Sumulong traveled alone to Manila for the first time, where he documented an N.G.O.’s efforts to relieve poverty in the Baseco slums. That first excursion gave him a sense of belonging that he explored over 11 years of visits: dropping in on relatives, pursuing the stories of those targeted by current President Rodrigo Duterte’s merciless drug war, even getting a museum commission. Squeezed into the back of jeepneys filled with clutter or darting among sweaty revelers on wedding dance floors, these moments — high and low — form a hazy rejoinder to his existential question of “What if?”While Mr. Sumulong has cast himself as the guide, Manila, gripped by constant dualities in play even before his birth, proves to be the story’s underlying protagonist. Members of the moneyed elite whose wealth dates back to the colonial era can take pleasure in access to the new, exclusive Manila House social club, while just over 10 miles away, scrawny boys take a dip in the polluted waters near shanties. Locals and tourists indulge their pleasures at kaleidoscopic nightclubs or the red-light district’s L.A. Cafe, standing in stark contrast to taxis with lights reading “Simple Prayer” outside.“If someone visits Manila and really gets into it, it’s quite bipolar,” he said, “in that it’s harsh light of day, and at nighttime, it turns into something completely different.”But Mr. Sumulong admits his thought experiment can only go so far. Despite his kinship toward Manila’s various neighborhoods and constant return from abroad, the photographer is at heart a Filipino-American and New Yorker. An outsider. The use of a fisheye lens, he said, is a visual nod to his own present converging with Manila’s past: his lack of understanding of the Filipino language and the subsequent sense of alienation becomes apparent by the lens stretching the vista of pool halls and roulette tables into a distorted, almost inebriated gaze.“It’s telling my relationship to the Philippines,” Mr. Sumulong said. “There’s definitely a personal connection, but at the same time, there’s an undeniable level of detachment that creates a certain sense of the uncanny or the surreal.”Though it’s been nearly four decades since Mr. Sumulong’s parents fled the threats of death and flagrant human rights violations in the Philippines, these horrors persist. “There is no half-life to the abuse and the conflict that is in the Filipino soul right now,” Mr. Sumulong said.Interspersed among the photographs of men and women summarily executed in President Duterte’s antidrug offensive are letters to the deceased and to the Almighty, begging for clemency. That could have been his world, his fate, and it is a sobering thought.The project of Mr. Sumulong’s what-if other life starts with a fake birth certificate, forged on Recto Avenue. But, true to what might have been, it ends with his death certificate: “3 gunshot wounds.”Follow @nytimesphoto and @matthewsedacca on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Democratic electorate has shifted sharply to the left, taking many politicians along with it — willingly and unwillingly. By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.The most active wing of the Democratic Party — the roughly 20 percent of the party’s electorate that votes in primaries and wields disproportionate influence over which issues get prioritized — has moved decisively to the left. With all the attention that is being paid to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib and other new progressive voices in Congress, this may not seem like news, but we are only just beginning to realize the full significance of this shift.The Primaries Project at the Brookings Institution conducted extensive polling of 7,198 Democratic voters in the 2018 primaries and found that 60.4 percent described themselves as liberal, including 26.4 percent who said they were “very liberal.”In its most recent analysis, Gallup found that from 1994 to 2018, the percentage of all Democrats who call themselves liberal more than doubled from 25 percent to 51 percent.Over the same period, the percentage of Democratic moderates and conservatives fell steadily, with the share of moderates dropping from 48 to 34 percent, and of conservatives dropping from 25 to 13 percent. These trends began to accelerate during the administration of George W. Bush and have continued unabated during the Obama and Trump presidencies.In recent years, the internal pressures to hew to the left, driven largely by Democratic primary voters, have steadily gained strength.They include the determination to oppose all things Trump, especially his anti-immigrant policies, his racism and his religious bigotry; the rise of outspoken, well-educated liberals, many of them young; the #MeToo movement and Trump’s disrespect for women; the Occupy movement; the mobilization of anti-establishment voters by Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primaries; and the consistent exodus of more conservative white voters from the Democratic Party, supplanted by more politically liberal minority voters.The anti-establishment faction contributed significantly to the large turnout increases in Democratic primaries last year. Pew found that from 2014 to 2018, turnout in House primaries rose from 13.7 to 19.6 percent of all registered Democrats, in Senate primaries from 16.6 to 22.2 percent and in governor primaries from 17.1 to 24.5 percent.Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at Brookings, agrees with the analysis that core voters and activist leaders within the party are “moving leftward”:Medicare for All, free college, a universal jobs guarantee, a $15 minimum wage, an expansion of the EITC to the entire bottom half, workers on boards of directors, ending ICE, raising marginal tax rates to 70 percent are all big, bold leftist ideas and appear to be gaining currency.These “big, bold leftist ideas” pose a strategic problem for liberals and the Democratic Party, Sawhill, who published “The Forgotten Americans: An Economic Agenda for a Divided Nation” last year, wrote in an email:In my view, it’s a trade-off between exciting the base thereby insuring higher turnout vs. broadening the base to include independents and Republicans that don’t like Trump.Sawhill argues that if the goal of Democrats is victory, as opposed to ideological purity, they must focus on general election swing voters who are not die-hard Democrats.One key Democratic target, Sawhill observes, is the “well-educated, suburban women, many of them Republican, who voted for Democrats in the midterms.” Once Trump is gone, she continued, “they could easily return to their natural home in the Republican Party.”“Over the longer-term,” Sawhill continued,as millennials and minorities become an ever-larger proportion of the party, it will have a natural constituency that supports a new and bolder agenda, but the concentration of those voters in urban areas that are underrepresented in our electoral system will be a continuing drag on the party’s prospects.The extensive support among prospective Democratic presidential candidates for Medicare for All, government-guaranteed jobs and a higher minimum wage reflects the widespread desire in the electorate for greater protection from the vicissitudes of market capitalism — in response to “increasingly incomplete risk protection in an era of dramatic social change,” as the political scientist Jacob Hacker put it in “Privatizing Risk without Privatizing the Welfare State: The Hidden Politics of Social Policy Retrenchment in the United States.” Support for such protections is showing signs of becoming a litmus test for candidates running in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries.Polling by the Pew Research Center shows sharp movement in a progressive direction on key issues among many Democrats.Take liberalized attitudes on immigration as an example. From 2008 to 2018, the percentage of Democrats who said the government should create “a way for immigrants already here illegally to become citizens if the meet certain requirements” grew from 29 to 51 percent, while the share who said “there should be better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws” fell from 21 to 5 percent.Similarly, the percentage of Democrats who agreed with the statement that “racial discrimination is the main reason many blacks can’t get ahead these days” rose from 28 to 64 percent from 2010 to 2017.Paul Starr, a sociology professor at Princeton, warns against putting too much stock in the ascendance of progressive Democrats. In an essay in the American Prospect, Starr argues that there were “two distinct developments” in the 2018 elections:While progressives have gained ground in long-held Democratic areas, more centrist candidates have won the more competitive districts. This second development will limit how far to the left the party can go. The more the party expands into the suburbs, the more dependent it will be on those relatively centrist votes — and that dependence will become a constraint on the policies that Democrats are able to agree on.In addition, while acknowledging the rise of the progressive wing, Starr pointed out that a separate December 2018 Gallup survey found that 54 percent of Democratic voters would prefer their party to become “more moderate,” while 41 percent said they would like the party to become “more liberal.”Along similarly cautionary lines, David Graham wrote in the Atlantic last November:There’s clear leftward movement among Democratic voters on a range of issues, and there are more progressive candidates running than ever. But this doesn’t amount, at least yet, to the socialist groundswell that advocates pine for and critics fear. The actual policy positions, and number of leftist officeholders, will remain limited — at least for now. What happens in 2020 could be more telling.Graham’s conclusion:The Democratic Party is moving left, but it might not be clear quite how far left for two or even six years. The revolution is coming more slowly than its champions hope and its critics fear.Matt Grossmann, a political scientist at Michigan State, noted in an email that the leftwardmovement is across the board on policy, ideological identification, and values, but remains furthest left on specific policy. The public movement seems to be strongest on race and gender issues as well as any proposal tied to Trump.Women, according to Grossmann, “are becoming a bigger part of the Democratic electorate and more supportive of women primary candidates.”The 2018 primary elections revealed the deepening strength of an anti-establishment insurgent faction, largely young, white and minority urban voters who turned out in droves in Democratic primaries from Omaha to Tallahassee and from the Bronx to Boston.Michael Capuano, a former mayor of Somerville, Mass. and a ten-term member of the House, learned the hard way how much the Democratic electorate has changed. As mayor in the 1990s, Capuano presided over the gentrification of the once scruffy, working class town. Initially, the city was grateful.When Capuano first won election to Congress in 1998, he owed his victory in the 10-candidate Democratic primary to his hometown. He carried Somerville with 7,852 votes, more than the total vote for all nine opponents, 6,253, while losing to other candidates in Boston, Belmont, Cambridge, Chelsea and Watertown.The impact of gentrification is striking.By 2017, 61.2 percent of Somerville’s residents 25 or older had at least a bachelor’s degree, compared with 30.9 percent nationwide. The median household income was $84,722, compared with $57,652 nationally.Somerville had moved from downscale to upscale, not to the level of Brattle Street in Cambridge or Boston’s Beacon Hill, but still many steps up the ladder.In the process, Somerville left Capuano, a white working class Democrat in the mold of Tip O’Neill, behind.In 2018, twenty years after first winning his House seat, Capuano could no longer count on Somerville. Despite his deep roots — his father had been mayor before him — the vote there was a wash. Capuano received 8,423 to 8,286 for his opponent, Ayanna Pressley, an African-American Boston city councilwomen.Pressley swept Cambridge and Boston to crush Capuano, 60,046 to 42,430 districtwide.The same pattern emerged in the widely publicized defeat of Joe Crowley, another 10-term incumbent, by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in the Democratic primary in a House district that straddles the Bronx and Queens.Steven Romalewski, who runs the mapping service at the CUNY Center for Urban Research, wrote me by email that “Ocasio-Cortez did best in areas such as Astoria/Steinway and Sunnyside, which happen to be more white than other parts of the district,” a point he elaborated upon in a story quoting him posted on The Intercept:You can also see that most of her votes, the strongest vote support, came from areas like Astoria in Queens and Sunnyside in Queens and parts of Jackson Heights that, number one, were not predominantly Hispanic, so they’re a more mixed population, and are areas where — this is kind of a term of art — are in the process of being gentrified, where newer people are moving in,Grace Segers, writing in July on the City & State website, noted that Crowley fell victim to gentrification and that force may upend expectations in Democratic primaries throughout Manhattan and western Brooklyn and Queens. And the rise of younger voters who are newer to their districts and unattached to incumbents could power insurgent candidates throughout New York City.David Freedlander, writing in Politico Magazine, captured the unanticipated voting patterns that gave rise to Crowley’s defeat. “Ocasio-Cortez’s best precincts,” Freedlander wrote, were highly educated, whiter and richer than the district as a whole. In those neighborhoods, Ocasio-Cortez clobbered Crowley by 70 percent or more.Conversely, Crowley did best in “the working-class African-American enclave of LeFrak City, where he got more than 60 percent of the vote.” In fact, Crowleypulled some of his best numbers in Ocasio-Cortez’s heavily Latino and African-American neighborhood of Parkchester, in the Bronx — beating her by more than 25 points on her home turf.Jerry Skurnik, a New York political consultant, describes gentrifying communities outside Manhattan as experiencing an influx of “people who really want to live in Greenwich Village but can’t afford to.”This younger, well-educated constituency — predominately but not exclusively white — is hostile to cautious establishment Democrats, especially to older white men, and they are determined to engineer an intraparty cultural and ideological insurgency.The emergence in force in 2018 of these insurgent Democrats grows in part out of the Sanders presidential campaign. Sanders mobilized millions of voters, many of whom did not want the Democrats to nominate a candidate with deep ties to party regulars and to the major donor community.Maps of primary voting patterns in 2016 and 2018 produced by CUNY’s Graduate School of Journalism and the Center for Urban Research show that Sanders beat Clinton in just a handful of New York City neighborhoods. Many of those Sanders neighborhoods are in Ocasio-Cortez’s district and they are the communities that provided her biggest margins of victory.Sanders also carried Somerville in 2016, 12,247 to 9,016, where support for Capuano imploded two years later.If the turnout patterns in the Ocasio-Cortez and Pressley districts are even modestly predictive, the Democratic Party may be changing in significant ways.Tom Kiley, who conducted polling for Capuano, described in an email the shifting makeup of the Democratic electorate in the Seventh District of Massachusetts:Mike did best among older, white, non-college educated Democrats who, for the most part, still described themselves as liberals or moderate liberals.Pressley’s base, Kiley wrote, was overwhelmingly made up of liberal, college-educated, white voters, especially those under 45 who did not have a history of voting in off-year elections. We were expecting what we considered a robust turnout of 75,000 for the day after Labor Day. In fact it ballooned to over 100,000, largely on the strength of this younger white cohort.While the Boston-Cambridge-Somerville district is far more liberal than the national average, Kiley argued that trends there are likely to be replicated in many regions of the country. “These new voters will have a major impact in the Democratic nomination process in many states,” he wrote:The desire for change in general is huge, and Trump is a powerful accelerant. I have to believe these new voters aren’t going to just retreat after electing new members of Congress; they’ll come out in droves in the primaries next year. And they’ll be voting for change.While primary voters are normally predominately committed partisans with a long history of voting, in the Pressley-Capuano contest more than half of the voters had no record of previous primary voting (24 percent) or were recorded as voting in only one previous primary (29 percent).“If the Pressley campaign was banking on turnout, they certainly cashed in,” wrote Maeve Duggan, research director at the MassINC Polling Group, in an article posted on the website of WBUR, Boston’s NPR news station.“Some 106,556 voters in the 7th Congressional District cast ballots in the 2018 Democratic primary, compared with just 61,725 in 2014,” she continued, “and among the district’s 2018 primary voters, only 37 percent had also voted” in 2014 primaries, according to voter file analysis.Duggan and the MassINC Polling Group analyzed the demographics of the first-time voters and found:They were predominantly women and young people: Fifty-five percent were women, and 66 percent were age 44 or younger (including 34 percent who were 18 to 29 years old).The surge of young voters had a powerful impact, increasingthe overall proportion of voters 44 or younger from 25 percent in 2014 to 42 percent in 2018. Combining age and gender, women ages 18 to 29 made up the largest group of new voters, at 20 percent.The new voters, she found, “were more likely to be Asian or Hispanic, compared with the 7th’s repeat voters,” but, she noted, the state’s only majority-minority congressional district “still has a predominantly white voting base.”A July 2018 pre-election survey of voters in the Capuano-Pressley district conducted by WBUR-MassINC makes clear the importance of growing political participation among young voters. The survey found striking generational differences not only on the candidates but on issues.18-to-29-year-olds favored Pressley over Capuano 41-23 while those over 60 backed Capuano 59-28. Asked if they would be more or less likely to support a candidate who “made abolishing ICE a major priority,” young voters said “more likely” by 48-18 while older voters said it would make them “less likely” by 25-23.Both young and old supported a national health care program, but the margin of support versus oppose was larger (90-2) among young voters than among their elders (71-16).In a postelection analysis of the Ocasio-Cortez-Crowley contest, the Global Strategy Group found:White gentrified liberal areas went big for AOC and surged. Younger, white liberal areas contributed heavily to the margin of Ocasio-Cortez’s victory. Ocasio-Cortez won Hispanics.At the same time, according to their analysis, voters Crowley thought he could depend upon — “expected people, especially older primary voters — did not show up.”Joshua M. Zeitz, a historian whose most recent book is “Building the Great Society: Inside Lyndon Johnson’s White House,” argues that contemporary Democratic progressives are not insurgents, but in full accord with party tradition.In an essay in Politico, “Democrats Aren’t Moving Left. They’re Returning to Their Roots,” Zeitz argued thatWhat pundits today decry as a radical turn in Democratic policy and politics actually finds its antecedents in 1944. With the country fully mobilized for war, President Franklin Roosevelt called for “a second Bill of Rights … an economic Bill of Rights” that would entitle all Americans to a “useful and remunerative job,” “the right to earn enough to provide adequate food and clothing and recreation,” the “right … to a decent home,” “the right to adequate medical care” and the “right to a good education.”Sawhill looks at the ideological shifts in the Democratic electorate less from a historical perspective and more as a response to contemporary economic and social dislocation. Among both conservatives and liberals, Sawhill argued, there is “an intellectual awakening about the flaws of modern capitalism” — a recognition of the failings of “neoliberalism, the idea that a market economy with a few light guardrails is the best way to organize a society.” This intellectual climate may result in greater receptivity among voters to more radical proposals.The willingness of voters to support Democrats who are pushing initiatives like these will depend in large part, however, on the ability of candidates to assure the general electorate that their agenda is beneficial to all and not just to favored liberal constituencies. This will be difficult, given the fact that what is being proposed is a much larger role for government, and that those who are most in need of government support are in the bottom half of the income distribution and disproportionately minority — in a country with a long racist history. As a presidential candidate, Barack Obama was able to overcome this barrier twice, but the challenge should not be minimized.I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Christina Goldbaum[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The newly emboldened Democratic-led New York State Legislature waded into the battle over immigrants’ rights on Wednesday, approving a bill that for the first time offers undocumented students access to state financial aid and scholarships for higher education.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has confirmed he will sign the measure into law.The Dream Act is the latest in a wave of state-level protections for immigrants as blue state legislatures increasingly seek to act as a counterbalance to President Trump’s federal immigration policies. These issues are also expected to play a prominent role in the Democratic Party’s 2020 presidential primary, with candidates who are courting liberal activists supporting the state measures.After New York Democrats won control of the State Senate in November for the first time in a decade, protections for immigrants became a legislative priority. They included permitting undocumented residents to obtain state driver’s licenses and reducing maximum jail sentences for certain misdemeanors that could otherwise lead to deportation.“It took us almost a decade to get the Dream Act, and it’s going to take another five, 10, 20 years to undo the damage that Washington is causing our families,” said Assemblywoman Catalina Cruz of Queens, who was born in Colombia and came to New York as an undocumented child.Even as the bill gained passage, the New York Immigration Coalition and other advocates were pushing for lawmakers to “dream bigger” and address issues like expanded funding for immigrant legal services and health care for immigrants.All these measures, lawmakers say, could act as a bulwark against Republican efforts in Washington and the ongoing standoff over the nation’s southern border.“The election of Trump and the fact that he made immigration a central theme of his presidency has made immigration a more prominent issue at the state level,” said Muzaffar Chishti, the director of the Migration Policy Institute at the New York University School of Law. “In some ways, blue states are now competing with each other to provide a higher level of protection to immigrants.”The New York bill will affect an estimated 146,000 young people who were educated in New York public schools but have been ineligible to receive financial aid under federal and state law, according to analysis by the New York State Youth Leadership Council and N.Y.U. Law School’s Immigrant Rights Clinic.“These young undocumented immigrants will work, they will pay taxes, they will buy products, and the greater earning capacity they have the more taxes they will pay,” said Democratic State Sen. Luis Sepúlveda. “This is one piece of legislation where we must get beyond the anti-immigration fervor created by President Trump and see the benefits educating these young people has for our state.”But many Republicans say that the measure diverts funds away from legal residents and comes at the expense of taxpayers.“How am I supposed to tell families in my Senate district that adequate state aid to help afford college isn’t available for them, but it is available for others who are in this country illegally?” said Republican State Sen. James Seward.The move on financial aid for undocumented immigrants comes during a week in which the Legislature and Governor Cuomo continued to make headway on a list of liberal measures that had long been blocked while Republicans controlled the State Senate for most of the last decade.On Tuesday, Mr. Cuomo signed the Reproductive Health Act, to expand rights to abortion. New York’s abortion laws had not been updated since 1970, three years before Roe v. Wade. The measure moves abortion regulations from the state penal code to the health code, recognizing abortion as a public health issue rather than a crime from which the state had carved out exclusions.In passing the state Dream Act, New York joined California, Texas, New Mexico, Washington, Oregon and Minnesota, which have already passed similar legislation offering undocumented students access to state-funded financial aid; a dozen states have ensured undocumented immigrant residents can obtain driver’s licenses; and a handful have provided pathways for immigrants to secure professional and occupational licenses.Only three states have enacted provisions that proactively prohibit undocumented students from accessing in-state tuition rates, and two, Alabama and South Carolina, prohibit those students from even enrolling at a public postsecondary institution.The Dream Act’s passage reflected the Democratic Party’s turn to the left on immigration, an issue party leaders once handled gingerly out of fear of angering some white voters.But Mr. Trump’s incendiary language on race, the increasingly diverse nature of the Democratic voter base and the party’s success in multiethnic cities and suburbs have convinced many party leaders that they are both morally right and on safe political ground when they side with undocumented immigrants.The party’s 2020 presidential hopefuls — including some who once held more hawkish views on immigration, like Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York — are already moving to reassure liberal activists on the issue in an effort to protect themselves in the 2020 campaign.It is a strikingly different scenario than during the 2008 Democratic primary, when White House hopefuls wrestled with whether undocumented immigrants should be allowed to obtain driver’s licenses. Several candidates, including then-Senator Hillary Clinton of New York, were torn between pleasing their core voters and scaring off swing voters in a general election.The center of gravity has now shifted so that few Democratic presidential candidates would hesitate to embrace such measures as providing the undocumented drivers licenses or in-state tuition benefits. The only question now is how best to counter Mr. Trump’s hard-line immigration policies, and the debate has moved toward whether agencies like the Immigration and Customs Enforcement should exist at all.Democrats in the New York Legislature first introduced the Dream Act in 2013, but the legislation was narrowly defeated in the Senate. Since that time, Democrats have included it in New York state budget proposals, only to have it repeatedly negotiated out of the budget.“There is a backlog of progressive legislation that the new Democratic majority can finally prioritize,” said Democratic State Senator Jessica Ramos. “We might not have jurisdiction over immigration laws themselves, but there is still a lot we can do as a state to protect our diversity.”Though the state already allows all students who graduate from high school in New York to pay in-state tuition at the City University of New York and the State University of New York, the Dream Act extends state financial aid to all students who meet the Tuition Assistance Program requirements, opens 529 tuition savings accounts to all New York youth and establishes a commission to raise private funds for college scholarships to be offered to the children of immigrants.Still, the Republican minority that opposed the Dream Act argues that it creates a greater tax burden on already stressed middle-class taxpayers and puts the needs of undocumented immigrants above those of American-citizen students.“Middle-class families across New York continue to struggle with high tuition costs and oppressive taxes,” said Republican Assemblywoman Mary Beth Walsh. “As state representatives, it is our duty to ensure that our state government operates in the best interests of New York’s families” and not undocumented immigrants, she said.Until now, many young undocumented students could not afford to attend universities, despite aspiring to higher-education degrees; the Immigration Policy Center estimates that because of financial constrains, only 5 to 10 percent of the 4,500 undocumented students who graduate from New York high schools each year go on to pursue college degrees.“When I came here I found out how hard it would be to go to college as someone who is undocumented,” said Richard Salinas, an 18-year-old high school student in Queens who came to the United States four years ago. “I wouldn’t be able to get any help, and my mom can’t afford it and my dad can’t afford it.”“This changes everything for me,” Mr. Salinas said.Jesse McKinley and Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriPresident Trump came away empty-handed for now after the longest federal government shutdown in American history failed to pressure Congress into funding his long-promised border wall, purportedly to stop an inflow of drugs and crime from Mexico.But he is not done making his case on immigration.On Sunday he rattled off several figures on Twitter about how many undocumented immigrants there are in the United States, how much they cost the country financially and how many had illegally voted in Texas.There were already many problems with Mr. Trump’s assertion that undocumented immigrants disproportionately bring with them more drugs and crime. And several experts said they had concerns with the figures he disseminated on Sunday.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.In one tweet on Sunday, Mr. Trump said that “58,000 non-citizens voted in Texas, with 95,000 non-citizens registered to vote.” He was citing an investigation that Texas officials had publicized days earlier but that Democrats in the state immediately questioned.The investigation, by the Texas secretary of state’s office, said that 95,000 people who were registered to vote in the state had at some point told a law enforcement agency that they were not citizens. Out of that number, 58,000 had voted at some point since 1996.Politicians and voters’ advocates are asking officials to investigate both figures.“Because we have consistently seen Texas politicians conjure the specter of voter fraud as pretext to suppress legitimate votes, we are naturally skeptical,” Representative Rafael Anchia, a Democrat in the state House, told The New York Times.Even if the numbers are deemed accurate, those 58,000 voters could have become citizens before casting ballots. More than 50,000 people were naturalized in Texas in 2017, according to the Department of Homeland Security.“We have a reason to distrust these numbers,” said Andre Segura, the legal director for the A.C.L.U. of Texas. “There’s a long history of these numbers being inaccurate. Voter fraud is extremely rare.”In Florida, the administration of the former governor, Rick Scott, had tried to purge noncitizens from voter rolls in 2012. It started with a list of 180,000 voters based on driver’s license data, according to The Tampa Bay Times. Ultimately, 85 people were removed from the rolls, according to the newspaper.In another tweet, Mr. Trump said that “the cost of illegal immigration so far this year is $18,959,495,168. Cost Friday was $603,331,392.”It is not clear where Mr. Trump arrived at those figures. They track with a tweet from last month in which he declared that the country loses “250 Billion Dollars a year on illegal immigration.”But several experts said those figures were far too high.There is little research on how much undocumented immigrants cost the United States. The highest costs would generally be related to education and health care, but many undocumented immigrants pay taxes and are typically barred from receiving many of the costliest benefits, like Medicaid.No study seems to comprehensively address a net cost, instead focusing on either the costs or the benefits.“They tend to talk past each other, unfortunately,” said Randy Capps, the director of research for American programs at the Migration Policy Institute.The National Academy of Sciences concluded in 2016 that immigration, both legal and illegal, benefited the economy. It said that the average immigrant cost state and local governments about $1,600 a year from 2011 to 2013, but that their children and grandchildren paid far more in taxes than they consumed in public services.Alex Nowrasteh, a senior immigration policy analyst at the Cato Institute, said the highest figure he had seen came from the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors restricting immigration. It has said undocumented immigrants cost the country at least $116 billion per year.The Cato Institute disputes that figure, which Mr. Nowrasteh said did not take into account the economic benefits of undocumented immigrants. He and others have questioned the group’s methodology.“There’s no basis to any of those numbers about the fiscal cost,” he said. “The president’s numbers are even twice as bad.”Mr. Trump also claimed that in the United States there are “at least 25,772,342 illegal aliens, not the 11,000,000 that have been reported for years.”Again, several experts said Mr. Trump’s numbers were too high.It appears that Mr. Trump is making his claim based on a study conducted by researchers affiliated with Yale University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which estimated the number at 22 million.Starting with an estimate in 1990, the researchers modeled how the population would change in future years based on immigration rates, demographic change and deportations, among other factors, eventually arriving at the 22 million estimate.The conclusions of that study, published in the journal PLOS One in September, have been challenged, with some questioning whether it underestimated the number of immigrants who had left the country.The researchers have also acknowledged that their results diverge from existing estimates. Most other studies say the number is around 11 million or 12 million. The Pew Research Center estimated that it was about 10.7 million in 2016. In 2015, the Department of Homeland Security estimated the number to be 12 million.“There’s been no evidence of a new, rapid increase of the population,” Mr. Capps said.William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, said the methodology used by Pew had been vetted over decades.“They have a general sense that what they are doing is reasonably O.K.,” he said of the Pew researchers. “I trust them. They have been doing this for a long time.”Manny Fernandez contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — The Senate is poised as early as Tuesday to act on a Trump-backed measure to end the partial government shutdown, but a bill promoted as a compromise to pair the president’s wall with legal protections for some immigrants would also severely restrict migrants’ ability to claim asylum, drawing fierce opposition from immigrant rights groups.Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, is planning on Tuesday to put the measure on the Senate’s agenda, setting up a likely vote on Thursday, absent any agreement from Democrats to act on it sooner. But its prospects in the Senate are dim, and with the shutdown now in its fifth week, 800,000 federal workers are almost certain to miss their second paycheck on Friday.The 1,031-page bill, made public on Monday evening by the Senate Appropriations Committee, would fund shuttered federal agencies through the end of the fiscal year. It includes $5.7 billion for the border wall that Mr. Trump has proposed and large increases for detention of and removal of immigrants, as well as three-year provisional protections for 700,000 of the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers, and 300,000 immigrants mostly from Latin American countries who have been living in the United States under Temporary Protected Status.But while Republicans say the protections are drawn from the Bridge Act, a bipartisan measure, that bill would in fact protect hundreds of thousands more Dreamers, who were brought to the United States illegally as children. The Republican proposal would shield only those who applied for and received work permits under Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, created by President Barack Obama, which Mr. Trump rescinded in 2017.[Senate leaders have reached a deal that can end the government shutdown by the weekend.]Federal court decisions have kept DACA in place, and on Tuesday, the Supreme Court again declined the Trump administration’s request to review the legality of the program, almost certainly keeping it in place for the rest of the year. That decision by the court significantly devalued Mr. Trump’s overture to Democrats resisting wall funding.The new Senate measure also includes several provisions that are meant to make it more difficult for migrants to claim asylum in the United States, a legal process that allows people fleeing violence and persecution in their home countries to seek refuge. The changes have been top priorities of Stephen Miller, the conservative White House aide who crafted much of Mr. Trump’s immigration agenda.It would bar Central American children from seeking asylum in the United States, instead requiring them to apply in their own countries, in what the legislation describes as a program that “reduces the incentive for such persons to make the dangerous journey to the United States southern border to request asylum.”But Democrats and immigrants’ rights advocates denounce the plan as cruel. While the Obama administration created a similar program to expedite the claims of Central American children seeking asylum, it never moved to block such minors from applying inside the United States.“These are children who are often desperately fleeing terrible violence back home,” said Representative Diana DeGette, Democrat of Colorado. “They are literally running for their lives and asking for our country to help. Instead of offering them help, this proposal would require border officials to turn a deaf ear to their desperate pleas and send these kids back to the very places they just risked their lives to escape.”A separate provision would allow immigration authorities to quickly remove Central American minors seeking asylum in the United States, a change to an anti-child-trafficking statute that some scholars said would violate international law.“In effect, we are looking at the rapid expulsion of these children,” said Greg Chen of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. “The effect of the law will be to send people back into harm’s way, which would be a violation of international law.”The measure also adds a high bar for asylum claims across the board, mandating that they be deemed “in the national interest.” It would introduce a host of new grounds for deeming an asylum claim “frivolous,” including if the migrant seeking protection was also trying to obtain work authorization, had used a fraudulent document — knowingly or unknowingly — or did not file in a timely way.Republicans are arguing that the bill would do precisely what Democrats have been demanding: reopen the federal government immediately. As an added sweetener to Democrats, the measure also includes $12.7 billion for disaster relief, and would renew the Violence Against Women Act, which authorizes and funds services for victims of domestic violence — and expired at the end of last year.But the Senate math does not work in Mr. McConnell’s favor. He would need seven Democrats to join with all 53 Republicans for the measure to pass. But there are no more than a handful of Democrats in Republican-leaning states — Senators Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, Doug Jones of Alabama and Joe Manchin III of West Virginia — who might vote in favor.A spokesman for Mr. Manchin said the senator would remain undecided until he saw the text of the measure. Ms. Sinema and Mr. Jones have not announced their intentions.House Democrats are also planning this week to bring up a package of legislation to reopen the government and provide some funding for border-related operations, including infrastructure improvements at ports of entry and immigration judges. They are still weighing whether to bring up their own border security proposal as part of a measure to fund the Department of Homeland Security. But given that none of their plans include money for a wall, Mr. McConnell has said he will not bring them up in the Senate.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — The Trump administration said Thursday that it would start blocking a small number of asylum seekers from entering the United States from Mexico, using the San Ysidro border crossing near San Diego as the first location to turn back immigrants applying for refugee status.The policy to block asylum seekers was first announced last month by Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. It will gradually be expanded over the next two weeks at border crossings with heavy foot traffic in Texas, New Mexico and Arizona, according to a senior United States official briefed on the move, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The move is intended to dissuade immigrants, mostly from Central America, from making the long and dangerous journey through Mexico to the southwestern United States border. The policy is likely to intensify pressure on the Mexican authorities, who are already struggling to deal with thousands of Central American immigrants who have applied for humanitarian visas in Tapachula, near the border with Guatemala.It will apply both to some asylum seekers who try to enter the United States at border crossings and to people who are stopped while illegally trying to enter. Asylum seekers generally have been allowed to wait in the United States, often for years, for their cases to be processed.The number of pending immigration cases has grown by nearly 50 percent under President Trump, what many lawyers and advocates say is a crisis.“For far too long, our immigration system has been exploited by smugglers, traffickers and those with no legal right to be in the United States,” said Ms. Nielsen, who described the new protocol as a “methodical common-sense approach” in a statement late Thursday.While she cited the danger posed by adults and criminals, a fact sheet explaining the justification for the new policy, described as “migrant protection protocols,” cited an unmanageable influx of children and families from Central America as the main reason for the change.The protocol was necessary to counter “misguided court decisions and outdated laws that have made it easier for illegal aliens to enter and remain in the U.S.,” Ms. Nielsen said. Under the provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, the new policy can be enforced immediately without congressional approval, she added.Despite President Trump’s efforts to limit refugees, the number of migrants who asked for asylum last year out of fear of returning to their home countries jumped nearly 70 percent from 2017, according to Department of Homeland Security data. Nearly 60 percent of all foreigners asking for asylum were people in families.The announcement was made on Thursday amid tense negotiations between American and Mexican officials over how the policy would be carried out. It was primarily intended to relieve pressure on American immigration officials, but the senior official said it was also intended to highlight what the White House has called a “humanitarian crisis.”Mr. Trump shut down the government over a month ago over demands that House Democrats allocate $5.7 billion for the construction of a wall along the southwestern border. His plan failed in the Republican-controlled Senate on Thursday, leaving no clear path for an end to the longest funding lapse in American history.Under the new policy, asylum seekers who are turned back to Mexico will receive a notice informing them of their right to be heard in United States immigration court after 45 days, officials said.Immigrants rights groups are expected to challenge the move in court, and they are likely to argue that forcing asylum seekers to wait in Mexican border cities puts them at greater risk in a region known for its high murder rates.The Mexican authorities had long expected the move, but were taken aback when they were told early on Thursday that the plan would take effect on Friday.That will force the Mexican government to create a system for processing, housing and protecting the asylum seekers who would now congregate on their side of the border.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhy is Congress allowing private contractors to exploit detained immigrants?By Victoria LawMs. Law is a journalist and author of a book about incarcerated women.There are more than 48,000 people being held in immigrant detention in more than 200 facilities in the United States. More than two-thirds of them, according to the National Immigrant Justice Center, are confined by private companies, working on contracts with the federal government. Those numbers have ballooned in the last two years under the Trump administration, drawing new attention to the terrible conditions detainees are living in.One feature of privately run centers — the Voluntary Work Program — is the subject of six separate lawsuits, which say that privately run immigrant detention centers are coercing detainees into working for a dollar a day and punishing those who don’t. The lawsuits demand, among other things, that the practice stop and that detained workers be paid minimum wage.Congress should not wait for these lawsuits to be decided. Democrats have won the House, so even if they can’t stop the president’s anti-immigrant push, they can push to raise the obsolete and exploitative $1-a-day wage. And, just as they have rejected Mr. Trump’s request for $5.7 billion for the border wall, they should reject the request for $2.8 billion to expand detentions to 52,000 beds.Prison labor is nearly as old as the American prison system itself, and it is protected by the 13th Amendment, which abolished slavery and indentured servitude except as punishment for a crime. This exception means that prisons can require their prisoners to work, even without compensation. But immigrant detention is civil confinement, not criminal. People held in these facilities are not charged with any crime; they are being detained while awaiting asylum or deportation hearings. Under Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Voluntary Work Program, however,  immigrant detention centers need not pay workers more than one dollar a day, a rate set by Congress in 1950 and codified in the 1978 Appropriations Act. It has never been increased or adjusted for inflation.Detainees say that the Voluntary Work Program is not really voluntary. If they attempt to take a day off or refuse to work, staff members punish them by withholding essential items, threatening to move them to more dangerous housing units or locking them in their cells. Wilhen Hill Barrientos, a Guatemalan asylum seeker and a plaintiff in the lawsuit against CoreCivic’s Stewart Detention Center in Georgia, said that he had to either work for a few cents an hour or go without basic things like soap, which he could get only through the commissary.According to Mr. Barrientos’s lawsuit, one night a guard awakened him for the 2 a.m. shift in the kitchen rather than his scheduled 10 a.m. shift. When he refused, the guard threatened to move him to a violence-plagued dormitory, so Mr. Barrientos acquiesced.Martha Gonzalez, from Mexico, was detained in three different CoreCivic prisons in Texas from May 2016 to August 2017 as she awaited a T-1 visa, which is granted to victims of human trafficking. She worked in the kitchen and sorted clothing. When she once tried to take a day off, she told me, the prison staff then punished her by refusing to give her basic hygiene supplies such as sanitary pads and toothpaste. CoreCivic did not respond to Ms. Gonzalez’s allegation but said that its work programs are “completely voluntary” and that “detainees are subject to no disciplinary action whatsoever if they choose not to participate in the work program.”A representative for GEO Group called the lawsuits’ allegations baseless, saying that “this is a strictly voluntary program” and that GEO Group provides hygiene products free of charge upon request. Private corporations hold less than 10 percent of the nation’s prison population, but more than 70 percent of people in immigration detention. The government pays them a fixed daily price per person, so they have an economic incentive to run their facilities as cheaply as possible, relying on detainees to cook meals, mop hallways, scrub toilets, mow lawns and even cut hair.In 2016, CoreCivic’s revenue from Stewart (where Mr. Barrientos and other detainees worked in the kitchen) was about $38 million; in 2017, contracts with ICE comprised 25 percent of its $1.76 billion in revenue. For GEO Group, ICE contracts comprised 19 percent of its $2.26 billion revenue in 2017. At the same time, the detention centers provide the barest minimum to detainees, while charging them exorbitant rates for necessities. In immigrant detention, a phone call can cost as much as $12.75 for 15 minutes. Four ounces of toothpaste sells for $11.These two corporations have become the giants of the private prison industry. Between 2016 and 2018, CoreCivic spent $2.8 million in lobbying and over $700,000 on campaign contributions while GEO Group spent $4.4 million in lobbying and $2.5 million on campaign contributions. Each company also donated $250,000 to Mr. Trump’s inauguration.They blame the 1978 Appropriations Act for the low wages. As GEO Group puts it, “The wage rates associated with this federal government program are stipulated under long-established guidelines set by the United States Congress.” That is true. If Congress instead forced these companies to pay the federal minimum wage, their profit margins would drop dramatically.But the dollar-a-day rule has stalwart defenders in Congress. In response to a class-action lawsuit in which formerly detained immigrants said they were forced to work, 18 Republican congressmen sent a letter on March 7, 2018, to the attorney general at the time, Jeff Sessions, the head of ICE and the secretary of the Department of Labor, exhorting those agencies to help GEO Group defend itself. “Unless your agencies act to intervene in these lawsuits, immigration enforcement efforts will be thwarted, and the end result will be millions of dollars of unnecessary loss to the federal government in terms of additional expenses for immigration detention,” they said. In other words, they worried that if the private prisons were forced to pay reasonable wages, the companies would pass on those costs to the federal government.The lawsuits are not pushing to end the Voluntary Work Program altogether. They understand that it allows people who are in detention to buy things they need and keep in touch with their families by phone, which becomes even more urgent as the number of families torn apart by detention increases. Instead, the lawsuits are pushing for an end to exploitation and a fair wage for their work.Yes, paying detainees a minimum wage would make these facilities much more expensive to operate. But if privately run detention centers rely on a business model based on forced labor, perhaps they should not exist at all.Victoria Law, a journalist, is the author of “Resistance Behind Bars: The Struggle of Incarcerated Women.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this article misstated CoreCivic's total revenue in 2017. It was $1.76 billion, not $444 million.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEl EspaceThis week in El Espace: returning to the place you left as a child, the end of the L.A. teachers’ strike and the triumph of Yalitza Aparicio.By Concepción de LeónEl Espace is a column dedicated to news and culture relevant to Latinx communities. Expect politics, arts, analysis, personal essays and more. ¿Lo mejor? It’ll be in Spanish and English, so you can forward it to your tía, your primo Lalo or anyone else (read: everyone).On trips back to the campo where my parents grew up, and where I spent the first few years of my life, I rarely need to introduce myself. Many stop me on my way to the colmado or a relative’s house to ask, “¿Y es que tú no te acuerdas de mi?” But I never do recognize them. I left when I was a toddler, so while they see a lineage in my face — my mother’s eyes, my father’s nose — they are strangers to me. And while my aunts, who grew up carrying bath water in buckets from the river and walking around barefoot in the grass, can name all the flowers (framboyán, buganvilla, cayena) in the vast, lush backyard of their childhood, I have to ask questions, taking notes on my iPhone so I can learn to describe this place.For an immigrant (or a descendant of one) growing up in America, it can be difficult to determine when or where one’s story begins. Many feel groundless and displaced, existing between two cultures and languages. The Chicana scholar Gloria Anzaldúa described this feeling as a third space, the “borderlands,” in her groundbreaking work of feminist and cultural theory, “Borderlands/La Frontera: The New Mestiza.” A common refrán puts it more plainly: ni de aquí, ni de allá (neither from here, nor from there).Most Latinos feel a strong connection to their country of origin: More than 60 percent describe themselves in relation to their ancestral homeland (as Mexican or Colombian-American, for example) or engage in transnational activities like sending money back home, calling family members regularly or traveling back to visit. In my experience, though, it always feels like a negotiation of two identities. In New York, I am a black Dominican; in Santo Domingo, I am an American.Geraldine Isabelle Abad, a Dominican-American who plans tours for people visiting Cuba and the Dominican Republic, said that taking solo trips to her family’s country of origin has helped her integrate the different parts of her heritage. “It was eye-opening,” she said in a recent call. “It made me understand that a Dominican is not just one thing. We’re complex and diverse. There are different cultures here.” She mentioned the community of hikers she encountered while hiking Pico Duarte, the Caribbean’s highest summit, and the social justice activists creating safe spaces for queer artists in the capital as examples of the country’s cultural diversity.Being apart from her family living in the Dominican Republic wasn’t easy. “Our community values here are so strong, and that’s a gift, but it makes it hard for us to grow our own self-awareness,” Ms. Abad said. And for women in particular, there’s “that fear that a woman should have somebody to accompany her. It’s almost radical for a woman to be alone and traveling. People are afraid for us.” She hopes to dispel the misconception among Dominican-Americans that the island is unsafe outside of Punta Cana, so she created the Dominican Diaspora Heritage Tours, a culturally immersive experience curated for Dominicans living elsewhere.Reconnecting with our native countries on our own terms is one way to merge our present-day selves with our family history. A friend from New York offered another idea: She has only felt fully herself within the four walls of her apartment, the home she built after leaving home. Maybe belonging isn’t found, but crafted.Here are more stories to read this week. SUPREME COURT SIDESTEPS DECISION ON DACAThe program will remain in place (for now), and a decision about its future likely will not be made until 2020.INDIGENOUS REPRESENTATION AT THE OSCARSYalitza Aparicio, the breakout star of Alfonso Cuarón’s “Roma,” received an Oscar nomination for her role in the film. It’s kind of a big deal.A WIN FOR L.A. TEACHERSThe strikes that began last week ended on Tuesday, after the Los Angeles teachers’ union reached an agreement with the school district that will add more support staff to schools and place a cap on class sizes.EL CHAPO AND THE BORDER WALLPresident Trump recently claimed that a border wall could stop the flow of drugs into the country from Mexico, but 10 weeks of testimony at the trial of the drug lord Joaquín Guzmán Loera, better known as El Chapo, tell a different story.HEIGHTENED TENSIONS IN VENEZUELATens of thousands of Venezuelans hit the streets on Wednesday to protest President Nicolás Maduro, heeding the call of a young leader for the opposition party, Juan Guaidó, who declared himself interim president after criticizing Maduro as an illegitimate dictator. Guaidó has so far gotten backing and recognition as the formal leader from various counties in Latin America as well as the United States.As we reflect on Martin Luther King Jr.’s legacy this week, this essay about “the talk” many black people receive from their parents about how their skin color will affect their lives feels particularly poignant. “You are going to have to fight to be treated equal. Even to be treated fairly,” the writer’s father told her when she was 13. But in addition to offering “a warning,” he also encouraged her to see her race as a point of pride. “I want you to remember, you are lucky to be black,” he said. “Be proud, but be careful.”Do you have suggestions for El Espace? Want to receive it as a newsletter? Let me know: elespace@nytimes.comConcepción de León is the digital staff writer covering literary news and culture for the Books Desk. Separately, she launched El Espace for the Styles section, a weekly column in which she writes about news and culture for a Latinx audience. She previously worked for Glamour magazine.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matt Stevens, Emily S. Rueb and Elisha BrownOn the night of Jan. 10, someone walked into a home tucked near the forests that blanket Nevada’s northwest border and fatally shot 56-year-old Connie Koontz, the authorities said. Three days later, again under the cover of darkness, someone walked into another Douglas County home about a mile up the road and shot and killed Sophia Renken, 74.Then, three days after that, Washoe County sheriff’s deputies searched a home about 40 miles farther north on La Guardia Lane. There, they found 81-year-old Gerald David and his wife, Sharon David, 80, both with gunshot wounds; they, too, were dead.For nine days, law enforcement officials from across the region banded together to both reassure and ready residents who had been shaken by what prosecutors would call “brutal murders.” Lock your doors and windows, the authorities said; turn on outdoor lights; keep your cellphones handy.By Sunday — the 10th day of regionwide panic — they were able to deliver some calming news: A suspect was in custody; they believed the man, who they have varyingly identified as Wilbur or Wilber Martinez-Guzman, was responsible for all four homicides.Mr. Martinez-Guzman, who is either 19 or 20 years old, had been arrested at a home on Saturday afternoon on felony burglary and immigration charges, Sheriff Ken Furlong of Carson City said, though prosecutors added that they intended to charge him with the murders. Law enforcement officials did not discuss the motive in the killings.Immigration officials, Sheriff Furlong said, had notified law enforcement that Mr. Martinez-Guzman had been in the Carson City area for about a year, but “was likely in the United States illegally and was detainable.” Jail records show that he is under a hold from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which Sheriff Furlong said prevented him from being released on bail.The agency said Wednesday that Mr. Martinez-Guzman “is a citizen of Guatemala who ICE believes is unlawfully present in the United States.” There were no prior criminal or immigration encounters noted in his history, officials said, while also confirming that they had placed a so-called detainer on him.“Four people in Nevada viciously robbed and killed by an illegal immigrant who should not have been in our Country,” President Trump said in a tweet on Monday. “We need a powerful Wall!”The disclosure that Mr. Martinez-Guzman may be in the United States illegally has thrust the case into a set of high-profile murders that Mr. Trump has leveraged to bolster his arguments about immigration and the need for a wall along the country’s southwest border. The dispute over funding for such a wall remains at the center of a government shutdown.The president has previously called attention to the murder of Mollie Tibbetts, a 20-year-old college student, who the police have said was killed by an undocumented immigrant from Mexico. (Her father has called on people to not exploit her death to promote a political agenda.) Mr. Trump also said it was “time to get tough on Border Security” after the authorities arrested a man in California in December who they said fatally shot a police officer and had entered the United States illegally.In the meantime, friends and family of the four Nevada victims — some of whom flanked the police at the Sunday news conference — were left to grieve.Eddie England, 70, who met Ms. Renken through the Carson Valley chapter of the Antique Automobile Club of America, said in an interview on Tuesday that four lives could have been saved if Mr. Martinez-Guzman had been expelled from the country.He described Ms. Renken as an independent and tough woman who drove a 1930s Ford Model A. Still, she moved to Gardnerville in Douglas County a few years ago to be closer to people — a situation she felt would be safer, Mr. England said.“And this,” he said, “is what happened to her.”“It’s hard to take.”Alan Squailia, a friend of Mr. David, described Gerald and his wife as “salt-of-the-earth people,” who were active community servants and animal lovers.“If you needed a friend, and needed someone to help you, it was this couple,” Mr. Squailia, 75, said.Looking at a photograph of Mr. Martinez-Guzman, Mr. Squailia said he could imagine that Mr. David would have invited the young man into his home if he had been looking for help.“The whole city of Reno is devastated over this,” he said. “We still can’t wrap our minds around it.”Doris Burke contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey FortinThree men who were convicted of plotting to blow up a Kansas apartment complex where Somali refugees lived have each been sentenced to at least 25 years in prison, the Justice Department said on Friday.“The defendants in this case acted with clear premeditation in an attempt to kill innocent people on the basis of their religion and national origin,” Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting United States attorney general, said in a statement. “That’s not just illegal — it’s morally repugnant.”During the trial last year in Wichita, Kan., prosecutors portrayed the men as aspiring domestic terrorists who were preparing to bomb the apartment complex in Garden City, Kan., which is home to a makeshift mosque and a community of Somali immigrants. The men, who called themselves “the Crusaders,” were arrested about four weeks before Nov. 9, 2016, the date they had picked for the bombing.Prosecutors said the men had also considered attacks on other targets, including elected officials and churches that helped refugees. In secretly recorded conversations, the men could be heard making demeaning comments about Muslims; one called them “cockroaches.”On Friday, Curtis Allen, 51, was sentenced to 25 years in prison. Gavin Wright, 53, was sentenced to 26 years. Patrick Stein, 49, was sentenced to 30 years.In April, the men were convicted of conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction and conspiracy against rights, which the Justice Department considers a hate crime. Mr. Wright was also convicted of lying to the F.B.I.“These defendants planned to ruthlessly bomb an apartment complex and kill innocent people, simply because of who they are and how they worship,” Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, said in the statement.Kari Schmidt, a lawyer for Mr. Wright, said his sentence significantly exceeded typical sentences for cases like these. “We believe certain trial rulings materially impaired presentation of the full story to the jury,” she added. “Mr. Wright will appeal his conviction.”Lawyers for the other men did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Saturday. But they have previously argued that their clients had been manipulated or prodded by the F.B.I., and that they had been unfairly targeted for exercising their rights to free speech and gun ownership.The trial focused on evidence from a paid F.B.I. informant who had infiltrated a militia group that included the three men and secretly recorded their conversations.The proceedings took on political significance in part because the F.B.I. has been criticized frequently by President Trump, and because it took place during an era of escalating threats against racial and religious minorities.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylensThrough photographs of celebration, mourning and everyday life in his parents’ hometown, Manila, Lawrence Sumulong searches for what his life could have been.Photographs by Lawrence SumulongText by Matthew SedaccaBefore you are born, and until you die, life is more or less a series of contingencies. That missed light signal may have kept you from being run over by a truck, while that crinkled lotto ticket in the laundry, had you looked, could’ve been your path to absurd riches. And then there’s your parents, who in any infinite number of selfish, altruistic and unforeseen ways, could have set you out on a different path altogether.Lawrence Sumulong, a Filipino-American photographer, went down this theoretical rabbit hole in “Dead to Rights,” his long-term project documenting his parents’ hometown, Manila. And, in an alternate reality, it’s his home, too.“My life was determined, essentially, by my parents, in that it could have gone the other way, and that I could have been born in the Philippines,” Mr. Sumulong said. “And so throughout the entire story, I’m trying to see what came about while I was away.”In 1980, Mr. Sumulong’s parents fled the Philippines — and dictatorial rule of Ferdinand Marcos — and wound up in New Jersey. Nearly three decades later, Mr. Sumulong traveled alone to Manila for the first time, where he documented an N.G.O.’s efforts to relieve poverty in the Baseco slums. That first excursion gave him a sense of belonging that he explored over 11 years of visits: dropping in on relatives, pursuing the stories of those targeted by current President Rodrigo Duterte’s merciless drug war, even getting a museum commission. Squeezed into the back of jeepneys filled with clutter or darting among sweaty revelers on wedding dance floors, these moments — high and low — form a hazy rejoinder to his existential question of “What if?”While Mr. Sumulong has cast himself as the guide, Manila, gripped by constant dualities in play even before his birth, proves to be the story’s underlying protagonist. Members of the moneyed elite whose wealth dates back to the colonial era can take pleasure in access to the new, exclusive Manila House social club, while just over 10 miles away, scrawny boys take a dip in the polluted waters near shanties. Locals and tourists indulge their pleasures at kaleidoscopic nightclubs or the red-light district’s L.A. Cafe, standing in stark contrast to taxis with lights reading “Simple Prayer” outside.“If someone visits Manila and really gets into it, it’s quite bipolar,” he said, “in that it’s harsh light of day, and at nighttime, it turns into something completely different.”But Mr. Sumulong admits his thought experiment can only go so far. Despite his kinship toward Manila’s various neighborhoods and constant return from abroad, the photographer is at heart a Filipino-American and New Yorker. An outsider. The use of a fisheye lens, he said, is a visual nod to his own present converging with Manila’s past: his lack of understanding of the Filipino language and the subsequent sense of alienation becomes apparent by the lens stretching the vista of pool halls and roulette tables into a distorted, almost inebriated gaze.“It’s telling my relationship to the Philippines,” Mr. Sumulong said. “There’s definitely a personal connection, but at the same time, there’s an undeniable level of detachment that creates a certain sense of the uncanny or the surreal.”Though it’s been nearly four decades since Mr. Sumulong’s parents fled the threats of death and flagrant human rights violations in the Philippines, these horrors persist. “There is no half-life to the abuse and the conflict that is in the Filipino soul right now,” Mr. Sumulong said.Interspersed among the photographs of men and women summarily executed in President Duterte’s antidrug offensive are letters to the deceased and to the Almighty, begging for clemency. That could have been his world, his fate, and it is a sobering thought.The project of Mr. Sumulong’s what-if other life starts with a fake birth certificate, forged on Recto Avenue. But, true to what might have been, it ends with his death certificate: “3 gunshot wounds.”Follow @nytimesphoto and @matthewsedacca on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Democratic electorate has shifted sharply to the left, taking many politicians along with it — willingly and unwillingly. By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.The most active wing of the Democratic Party — the roughly 20 percent of the party’s electorate that votes in primaries and wields disproportionate influence over which issues get prioritized — has moved decisively to the left. With all the attention that is being paid to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib and other new progressive voices in Congress, this may not seem like news, but we are only just beginning to realize the full significance of this shift.The Primaries Project at the Brookings Institution conducted extensive polling of 7,198 Democratic voters in the 2018 primaries and found that 60.4 percent described themselves as liberal, including 26.4 percent who said they were “very liberal.”In its most recent analysis, Gallup found that from 1994 to 2018, the percentage of all Democrats who call themselves liberal more than doubled from 25 percent to 51 percent.Over the same period, the percentage of Democratic moderates and conservatives fell steadily, with the share of moderates dropping from 48 to 34 percent, and of conservatives dropping from 25 to 13 percent. These trends began to accelerate during the administration of George W. Bush and have continued unabated during the Obama and Trump presidencies.In recent years, the internal pressures to hew to the left, driven largely by Democratic primary voters, have steadily gained strength.They include the determination to oppose all things Trump, especially his anti-immigrant policies, his racism and his religious bigotry; the rise of outspoken, well-educated liberals, many of them young; the #MeToo movement and Trump’s disrespect for women; the Occupy movement; the mobilization of anti-establishment voters by Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primaries; and the consistent exodus of more conservative white voters from the Democratic Party, supplanted by more politically liberal minority voters.The anti-establishment faction contributed significantly to the large turnout increases in Democratic primaries last year. Pew found that from 2014 to 2018, turnout in House primaries rose from 13.7 to 19.6 percent of all registered Democrats, in Senate primaries from 16.6 to 22.2 percent and in governor primaries from 17.1 to 24.5 percent.Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at Brookings, agrees with the analysis that core voters and activist leaders within the party are “moving leftward”:Medicare for All, free college, a universal jobs guarantee, a $15 minimum wage, an expansion of the EITC to the entire bottom half, workers on boards of directors, ending ICE, raising marginal tax rates to 70 percent are all big, bold leftist ideas and appear to be gaining currency.These “big, bold leftist ideas” pose a strategic problem for liberals and the Democratic Party, Sawhill, who published “The Forgotten Americans: An Economic Agenda for a Divided Nation” last year, wrote in an email:In my view, it’s a trade-off between exciting the base thereby insuring higher turnout vs. broadening the base to include independents and Republicans that don’t like Trump.Sawhill argues that if the goal of Democrats is victory, as opposed to ideological purity, they must focus on general election swing voters who are not die-hard Democrats.One key Democratic target, Sawhill observes, is the “well-educated, suburban women, many of them Republican, who voted for Democrats in the midterms.” Once Trump is gone, she continued, “they could easily return to their natural home in the Republican Party.”“Over the longer-term,” Sawhill continued,as millennials and minorities become an ever-larger proportion of the party, it will have a natural constituency that supports a new and bolder agenda, but the concentration of those voters in urban areas that are underrepresented in our electoral system will be a continuing drag on the party’s prospects.The extensive support among prospective Democratic presidential candidates for Medicare for All, government-guaranteed jobs and a higher minimum wage reflects the widespread desire in the electorate for greater protection from the vicissitudes of market capitalism — in response to “increasingly incomplete risk protection in an era of dramatic social change,” as the political scientist Jacob Hacker put it in “Privatizing Risk without Privatizing the Welfare State: The Hidden Politics of Social Policy Retrenchment in the United States.” Support for such protections is showing signs of becoming a litmus test for candidates running in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries.Polling by the Pew Research Center shows sharp movement in a progressive direction on key issues among many Democrats.Take liberalized attitudes on immigration as an example. From 2008 to 2018, the percentage of Democrats who said the government should create “a way for immigrants already here illegally to become citizens if the meet certain requirements” grew from 29 to 51 percent, while the share who said “there should be better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws” fell from 21 to 5 percent.Similarly, the percentage of Democrats who agreed with the statement that “racial discrimination is the main reason many blacks can’t get ahead these days” rose from 28 to 64 percent from 2010 to 2017.Paul Starr, a sociology professor at Princeton, warns against putting too much stock in the ascendance of progressive Democrats. In an essay in the American Prospect, Starr argues that there were “two distinct developments” in the 2018 elections:While progressives have gained ground in long-held Democratic areas, more centrist candidates have won the more competitive districts. This second development will limit how far to the left the party can go. The more the party expands into the suburbs, the more dependent it will be on those relatively centrist votes — and that dependence will become a constraint on the policies that Democrats are able to agree on.In addition, while acknowledging the rise of the progressive wing, Starr pointed out that a separate December 2018 Gallup survey found that 54 percent of Democratic voters would prefer their party to become “more moderate,” while 41 percent said they would like the party to become “more liberal.”Along similarly cautionary lines, David Graham wrote in the Atlantic last November:There’s clear leftward movement among Democratic voters on a range of issues, and there are more progressive candidates running than ever. But this doesn’t amount, at least yet, to the socialist groundswell that advocates pine for and critics fear. The actual policy positions, and number of leftist officeholders, will remain limited — at least for now. What happens in 2020 could be more telling.Graham’s conclusion:The Democratic Party is moving left, but it might not be clear quite how far left for two or even six years. The revolution is coming more slowly than its champions hope and its critics fear.Matt Grossmann, a political scientist at Michigan State, noted in an email that the leftwardmovement is across the board on policy, ideological identification, and values, but remains furthest left on specific policy. The public movement seems to be strongest on race and gender issues as well as any proposal tied to Trump.Women, according to Grossmann, “are becoming a bigger part of the Democratic electorate and more supportive of women primary candidates.”The 2018 primary elections revealed the deepening strength of an anti-establishment insurgent faction, largely young, white and minority urban voters who turned out in droves in Democratic primaries from Omaha to Tallahassee and from the Bronx to Boston.Michael Capuano, a former mayor of Somerville, Mass. and a ten-term member of the House, learned the hard way how much the Democratic electorate has changed. As mayor in the 1990s, Capuano presided over the gentrification of the once scruffy, working class town. Initially, the city was grateful.When Capuano first won election to Congress in 1998, he owed his victory in the 10-candidate Democratic primary to his hometown. He carried Somerville with 7,852 votes, more than the total vote for all nine opponents, 6,253, while losing to other candidates in Boston, Belmont, Cambridge, Chelsea and Watertown.The impact of gentrification is striking.By 2017, 61.2 percent of Somerville’s residents 25 or older had at least a bachelor’s degree, compared with 30.9 percent nationwide. The median household income was $84,722, compared with $57,652 nationally.Somerville had moved from downscale to upscale, not to the level of Brattle Street in Cambridge or Boston’s Beacon Hill, but still many steps up the ladder.In the process, Somerville left Capuano, a white working class Democrat in the mold of Tip O’Neill, behind.In 2018, twenty years after first winning his House seat, Capuano could no longer count on Somerville. Despite his deep roots — his father had been mayor before him — the vote there was a wash. Capuano received 8,423 to 8,286 for his opponent, Ayanna Pressley, an African-American Boston city councilwomen.Pressley swept Cambridge and Boston to crush Capuano, 60,046 to 42,430 districtwide.The same pattern emerged in the widely publicized defeat of Joe Crowley, another 10-term incumbent, by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in the Democratic primary in a House district that straddles the Bronx and Queens.Steven Romalewski, who runs the mapping service at the CUNY Center for Urban Research, wrote me by email that “Ocasio-Cortez did best in areas such as Astoria/Steinway and Sunnyside, which happen to be more white than other parts of the district,” a point he elaborated upon in a story quoting him posted on The Intercept:You can also see that most of her votes, the strongest vote support, came from areas like Astoria in Queens and Sunnyside in Queens and parts of Jackson Heights that, number one, were not predominantly Hispanic, so they’re a more mixed population, and are areas where — this is kind of a term of art — are in the process of being gentrified, where newer people are moving in,Grace Segers, writing in July on the City & State website, noted that Crowley fell victim to gentrification and that force may upend expectations in Democratic primaries throughout Manhattan and western Brooklyn and Queens. And the rise of younger voters who are newer to their districts and unattached to incumbents could power insurgent candidates throughout New York City.David Freedlander, writing in Politico Magazine, captured the unanticipated voting patterns that gave rise to Crowley’s defeat. “Ocasio-Cortez’s best precincts,” Freedlander wrote, were highly educated, whiter and richer than the district as a whole. In those neighborhoods, Ocasio-Cortez clobbered Crowley by 70 percent or more.Conversely, Crowley did best in “the working-class African-American enclave of LeFrak City, where he got more than 60 percent of the vote.” In fact, Crowleypulled some of his best numbers in Ocasio-Cortez’s heavily Latino and African-American neighborhood of Parkchester, in the Bronx — beating her by more than 25 points on her home turf.Jerry Skurnik, a New York political consultant, describes gentrifying communities outside Manhattan as experiencing an influx of “people who really want to live in Greenwich Village but can’t afford to.”This younger, well-educated constituency — predominately but not exclusively white — is hostile to cautious establishment Democrats, especially to older white men, and they are determined to engineer an intraparty cultural and ideological insurgency.The emergence in force in 2018 of these insurgent Democrats grows in part out of the Sanders presidential campaign. Sanders mobilized millions of voters, many of whom did not want the Democrats to nominate a candidate with deep ties to party regulars and to the major donor community.Maps of primary voting patterns in 2016 and 2018 produced by CUNY’s Graduate School of Journalism and the Center for Urban Research show that Sanders beat Clinton in just a handful of New York City neighborhoods. Many of those Sanders neighborhoods are in Ocasio-Cortez’s district and they are the communities that provided her biggest margins of victory.Sanders also carried Somerville in 2016, 12,247 to 9,016, where support for Capuano imploded two years later.If the turnout patterns in the Ocasio-Cortez and Pressley districts are even modestly predictive, the Democratic Party may be changing in significant ways.Tom Kiley, who conducted polling for Capuano, described in an email the shifting makeup of the Democratic electorate in the Seventh District of Massachusetts:Mike did best among older, white, non-college educated Democrats who, for the most part, still described themselves as liberals or moderate liberals.Pressley’s base, Kiley wrote, was overwhelmingly made up of liberal, college-educated, white voters, especially those under 45 who did not have a history of voting in off-year elections. We were expecting what we considered a robust turnout of 75,000 for the day after Labor Day. In fact it ballooned to over 100,000, largely on the strength of this younger white cohort.While the Boston-Cambridge-Somerville district is far more liberal than the national average, Kiley argued that trends there are likely to be replicated in many regions of the country. “These new voters will have a major impact in the Democratic nomination process in many states,” he wrote:The desire for change in general is huge, and Trump is a powerful accelerant. I have to believe these new voters aren’t going to just retreat after electing new members of Congress; they’ll come out in droves in the primaries next year. And they’ll be voting for change.While primary voters are normally predominately committed partisans with a long history of voting, in the Pressley-Capuano contest more than half of the voters had no record of previous primary voting (24 percent) or were recorded as voting in only one previous primary (29 percent).“If the Pressley campaign was banking on turnout, they certainly cashed in,” wrote Maeve Duggan, research director at the MassINC Polling Group, in an article posted on the website of WBUR, Boston’s NPR news station.“Some 106,556 voters in the 7th Congressional District cast ballots in the 2018 Democratic primary, compared with just 61,725 in 2014,” she continued, “and among the district’s 2018 primary voters, only 37 percent had also voted” in 2014 primaries, according to voter file analysis.Duggan and the MassINC Polling Group analyzed the demographics of the first-time voters and found:They were predominantly women and young people: Fifty-five percent were women, and 66 percent were age 44 or younger (including 34 percent who were 18 to 29 years old).The surge of young voters had a powerful impact, increasingthe overall proportion of voters 44 or younger from 25 percent in 2014 to 42 percent in 2018. Combining age and gender, women ages 18 to 29 made up the largest group of new voters, at 20 percent.The new voters, she found, “were more likely to be Asian or Hispanic, compared with the 7th’s repeat voters,” but, she noted, the state’s only majority-minority congressional district “still has a predominantly white voting base.”A July 2018 pre-election survey of voters in the Capuano-Pressley district conducted by WBUR-MassINC makes clear the importance of growing political participation among young voters. The survey found striking generational differences not only on the candidates but on issues.18-to-29-year-olds favored Pressley over Capuano 41-23 while those over 60 backed Capuano 59-28. Asked if they would be more or less likely to support a candidate who “made abolishing ICE a major priority,” young voters said “more likely” by 48-18 while older voters said it would make them “less likely” by 25-23.Both young and old supported a national health care program, but the margin of support versus oppose was larger (90-2) among young voters than among their elders (71-16).In a postelection analysis of the Ocasio-Cortez-Crowley contest, the Global Strategy Group found:White gentrified liberal areas went big for AOC and surged. Younger, white liberal areas contributed heavily to the margin of Ocasio-Cortez’s victory. Ocasio-Cortez won Hispanics.At the same time, according to their analysis, voters Crowley thought he could depend upon — “expected people, especially older primary voters — did not show up.”Joshua M. Zeitz, a historian whose most recent book is “Building the Great Society: Inside Lyndon Johnson’s White House,” argues that contemporary Democratic progressives are not insurgents, but in full accord with party tradition.In an essay in Politico, “Democrats Aren’t Moving Left. They’re Returning to Their Roots,” Zeitz argued thatWhat pundits today decry as a radical turn in Democratic policy and politics actually finds its antecedents in 1944. With the country fully mobilized for war, President Franklin Roosevelt called for “a second Bill of Rights … an economic Bill of Rights” that would entitle all Americans to a “useful and remunerative job,” “the right to earn enough to provide adequate food and clothing and recreation,” the “right … to a decent home,” “the right to adequate medical care” and the “right to a good education.”Sawhill looks at the ideological shifts in the Democratic electorate less from a historical perspective and more as a response to contemporary economic and social dislocation. Among both conservatives and liberals, Sawhill argued, there is “an intellectual awakening about the flaws of modern capitalism” — a recognition of the failings of “neoliberalism, the idea that a market economy with a few light guardrails is the best way to organize a society.” This intellectual climate may result in greater receptivity among voters to more radical proposals.The willingness of voters to support Democrats who are pushing initiatives like these will depend in large part, however, on the ability of candidates to assure the general electorate that their agenda is beneficial to all and not just to favored liberal constituencies. This will be difficult, given the fact that what is being proposed is a much larger role for government, and that those who are most in need of government support are in the bottom half of the income distribution and disproportionately minority — in a country with a long racist history. As a presidential candidate, Barack Obama was able to overcome this barrier twice, but the challenge should not be minimized.I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Christina Goldbaum[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The newly emboldened Democratic-led New York State Legislature waded into the battle over immigrants’ rights on Wednesday, approving a bill that for the first time offers undocumented students access to state financial aid and scholarships for higher education.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has confirmed he will sign the measure into law.The Dream Act is the latest in a wave of state-level protections for immigrants as blue state legislatures increasingly seek to act as a counterbalance to President Trump’s federal immigration policies. These issues are also expected to play a prominent role in the Democratic Party’s 2020 presidential primary, with candidates who are courting liberal activists supporting the state measures.After New York Democrats won control of the State Senate in November for the first time in a decade, protections for immigrants became a legislative priority. They included permitting undocumented residents to obtain state driver’s licenses and reducing maximum jail sentences for certain misdemeanors that could otherwise lead to deportation.“It took us almost a decade to get the Dream Act, and it’s going to take another five, 10, 20 years to undo the damage that Washington is causing our families,” said Assemblywoman Catalina Cruz of Queens, who was born in Colombia and came to New York as an undocumented child.Even as the bill gained passage, the New York Immigration Coalition and other advocates were pushing for lawmakers to “dream bigger” and address issues like expanded funding for immigrant legal services and health care for immigrants.All these measures, lawmakers say, could act as a bulwark against Republican efforts in Washington and the ongoing standoff over the nation’s southern border.“The election of Trump and the fact that he made immigration a central theme of his presidency has made immigration a more prominent issue at the state level,” said Muzaffar Chishti, the director of the Migration Policy Institute at the New York University School of Law. “In some ways, blue states are now competing with each other to provide a higher level of protection to immigrants.”The New York bill will affect an estimated 146,000 young people who were educated in New York public schools but have been ineligible to receive financial aid under federal and state law, according to analysis by the New York State Youth Leadership Council and N.Y.U. Law School’s Immigrant Rights Clinic.“These young undocumented immigrants will work, they will pay taxes, they will buy products, and the greater earning capacity they have the more taxes they will pay,” said Democratic State Sen. Luis Sepúlveda. “This is one piece of legislation where we must get beyond the anti-immigration fervor created by President Trump and see the benefits educating these young people has for our state.”But many Republicans say that the measure diverts funds away from legal residents and comes at the expense of taxpayers.“How am I supposed to tell families in my Senate district that adequate state aid to help afford college isn’t available for them, but it is available for others who are in this country illegally?” said Republican State Sen. James Seward.The move on financial aid for undocumented immigrants comes during a week in which the Legislature and Governor Cuomo continued to make headway on a list of liberal measures that had long been blocked while Republicans controlled the State Senate for most of the last decade.On Tuesday, Mr. Cuomo signed the Reproductive Health Act, to expand rights to abortion. New York’s abortion laws had not been updated since 1970, three years before Roe v. Wade. The measure moves abortion regulations from the state penal code to the health code, recognizing abortion as a public health issue rather than a crime from which the state had carved out exclusions.In passing the state Dream Act, New York joined California, Texas, New Mexico, Washington, Oregon and Minnesota, which have already passed similar legislation offering undocumented students access to state-funded financial aid; a dozen states have ensured undocumented immigrant residents can obtain driver’s licenses; and a handful have provided pathways for immigrants to secure professional and occupational licenses.Only three states have enacted provisions that proactively prohibit undocumented students from accessing in-state tuition rates, and two, Alabama and South Carolina, prohibit those students from even enrolling at a public postsecondary institution.The Dream Act’s passage reflected the Democratic Party’s turn to the left on immigration, an issue party leaders once handled gingerly out of fear of angering some white voters.But Mr. Trump’s incendiary language on race, the increasingly diverse nature of the Democratic voter base and the party’s success in multiethnic cities and suburbs have convinced many party leaders that they are both morally right and on safe political ground when they side with undocumented immigrants.The party’s 2020 presidential hopefuls — including some who once held more hawkish views on immigration, like Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York — are already moving to reassure liberal activists on the issue in an effort to protect themselves in the 2020 campaign.It is a strikingly different scenario than during the 2008 Democratic primary, when White House hopefuls wrestled with whether undocumented immigrants should be allowed to obtain driver’s licenses. Several candidates, including then-Senator Hillary Clinton of New York, were torn between pleasing their core voters and scaring off swing voters in a general election.The center of gravity has now shifted so that few Democratic presidential candidates would hesitate to embrace such measures as providing the undocumented drivers licenses or in-state tuition benefits. The only question now is how best to counter Mr. Trump’s hard-line immigration policies, and the debate has moved toward whether agencies like the Immigration and Customs Enforcement should exist at all.Democrats in the New York Legislature first introduced the Dream Act in 2013, but the legislation was narrowly defeated in the Senate. Since that time, Democrats have included it in New York state budget proposals, only to have it repeatedly negotiated out of the budget.“There is a backlog of progressive legislation that the new Democratic majority can finally prioritize,” said Democratic State Senator Jessica Ramos. “We might not have jurisdiction over immigration laws themselves, but there is still a lot we can do as a state to protect our diversity.”Though the state already allows all students who graduate from high school in New York to pay in-state tuition at the City University of New York and the State University of New York, the Dream Act extends state financial aid to all students who meet the Tuition Assistance Program requirements, opens 529 tuition savings accounts to all New York youth and establishes a commission to raise private funds for college scholarships to be offered to the children of immigrants.Still, the Republican minority that opposed the Dream Act argues that it creates a greater tax burden on already stressed middle-class taxpayers and puts the needs of undocumented immigrants above those of American-citizen students.“Middle-class families across New York continue to struggle with high tuition costs and oppressive taxes,” said Republican Assemblywoman Mary Beth Walsh. “As state representatives, it is our duty to ensure that our state government operates in the best interests of New York’s families” and not undocumented immigrants, she said.Until now, many young undocumented students could not afford to attend universities, despite aspiring to higher-education degrees; the Immigration Policy Center estimates that because of financial constrains, only 5 to 10 percent of the 4,500 undocumented students who graduate from New York high schools each year go on to pursue college degrees.“When I came here I found out how hard it would be to go to college as someone who is undocumented,” said Richard Salinas, an 18-year-old high school student in Queens who came to the United States four years ago. “I wouldn’t be able to get any help, and my mom can’t afford it and my dad can’t afford it.”“This changes everything for me,” Mr. Salinas said.Jesse McKinley and Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriPresident Trump came away empty-handed for now after the longest federal government shutdown in American history failed to pressure Congress into funding his long-promised border wall, purportedly to stop an inflow of drugs and crime from Mexico.But he is not done making his case on immigration.On Sunday he rattled off several figures on Twitter about how many undocumented immigrants there are in the United States, how much they cost the country financially and how many had illegally voted in Texas.There were already many problems with Mr. Trump’s assertion that undocumented immigrants disproportionately bring with them more drugs and crime. And several experts said they had concerns with the figures he disseminated on Sunday.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.In one tweet on Sunday, Mr. Trump said that “58,000 non-citizens voted in Texas, with 95,000 non-citizens registered to vote.” He was citing an investigation that Texas officials had publicized days earlier but that Democrats in the state immediately questioned.The investigation, by the Texas secretary of state’s office, said that 95,000 people who were registered to vote in the state had at some point told a law enforcement agency that they were not citizens. Out of that number, 58,000 had voted at some point since 1996.Politicians and voters’ advocates are asking officials to investigate both figures.“Because we have consistently seen Texas politicians conjure the specter of voter fraud as pretext to suppress legitimate votes, we are naturally skeptical,” Representative Rafael Anchia, a Democrat in the state House, told The New York Times.Even if the numbers are deemed accurate, those 58,000 voters could have become citizens before casting ballots. More than 50,000 people were naturalized in Texas in 2017, according to the Department of Homeland Security.“We have a reason to distrust these numbers,” said Andre Segura, the legal director for the A.C.L.U. of Texas. “There’s a long history of these numbers being inaccurate. Voter fraud is extremely rare.”In Florida, the administration of the former governor, Rick Scott, had tried to purge noncitizens from voter rolls in 2012. It started with a list of 180,000 voters based on driver’s license data, according to The Tampa Bay Times. Ultimately, 85 people were removed from the rolls, according to the newspaper.In another tweet, Mr. Trump said that “the cost of illegal immigration so far this year is $18,959,495,168. Cost Friday was $603,331,392.”It is not clear where Mr. Trump arrived at those figures. They track with a tweet from last month in which he declared that the country loses “250 Billion Dollars a year on illegal immigration.”But several experts said those figures were far too high.There is little research on how much undocumented immigrants cost the United States. The highest costs would generally be related to education and health care, but many undocumented immigrants pay taxes and are typically barred from receiving many of the costliest benefits, like Medicaid.No study seems to comprehensively address a net cost, instead focusing on either the costs or the benefits.“They tend to talk past each other, unfortunately,” said Randy Capps, the director of research for American programs at the Migration Policy Institute.The National Academy of Sciences concluded in 2016 that immigration, both legal and illegal, benefited the economy. It said that the average immigrant cost state and local governments about $1,600 a year from 2011 to 2013, but that their children and grandchildren paid far more in taxes than they consumed in public services.Alex Nowrasteh, a senior immigration policy analyst at the Cato Institute, said the highest figure he had seen came from the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors restricting immigration. It has said undocumented immigrants cost the country at least $116 billion per year.The Cato Institute disputes that figure, which Mr. Nowrasteh said did not take into account the economic benefits of undocumented immigrants. He and others have questioned the group’s methodology.“There’s no basis to any of those numbers about the fiscal cost,” he said. “The president’s numbers are even twice as bad.”Mr. Trump also claimed that in the United States there are “at least 25,772,342 illegal aliens, not the 11,000,000 that have been reported for years.”Again, several experts said Mr. Trump’s numbers were too high.It appears that Mr. Trump is making his claim based on a study conducted by researchers affiliated with Yale University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which estimated the number at 22 million.Starting with an estimate in 1990, the researchers modeled how the population would change in future years based on immigration rates, demographic change and deportations, among other factors, eventually arriving at the 22 million estimate.The conclusions of that study, published in the journal PLOS One in September, have been challenged, with some questioning whether it underestimated the number of immigrants who had left the country.The researchers have also acknowledged that their results diverge from existing estimates. Most other studies say the number is around 11 million or 12 million. The Pew Research Center estimated that it was about 10.7 million in 2016. In 2015, the Department of Homeland Security estimated the number to be 12 million.“There’s been no evidence of a new, rapid increase of the population,” Mr. Capps said.William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, said the methodology used by Pew had been vetted over decades.“They have a general sense that what they are doing is reasonably O.K.,” he said of the Pew researchers. “I trust them. They have been doing this for a long time.”Manny Fernandez contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — The Senate is poised as early as Tuesday to act on a Trump-backed measure to end the partial government shutdown, but a bill promoted as a compromise to pair the president’s wall with legal protections for some immigrants would also severely restrict migrants’ ability to claim asylum, drawing fierce opposition from immigrant rights groups.Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, is planning on Tuesday to put the measure on the Senate’s agenda, setting up a likely vote on Thursday, absent any agreement from Democrats to act on it sooner. But its prospects in the Senate are dim, and with the shutdown now in its fifth week, 800,000 federal workers are almost certain to miss their second paycheck on Friday.The 1,031-page bill, made public on Monday evening by the Senate Appropriations Committee, would fund shuttered federal agencies through the end of the fiscal year. It includes $5.7 billion for the border wall that Mr. Trump has proposed and large increases for detention of and removal of immigrants, as well as three-year provisional protections for 700,000 of the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers, and 300,000 immigrants mostly from Latin American countries who have been living in the United States under Temporary Protected Status.But while Republicans say the protections are drawn from the Bridge Act, a bipartisan measure, that bill would in fact protect hundreds of thousands more Dreamers, who were brought to the United States illegally as children. The Republican proposal would shield only those who applied for and received work permits under Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, created by President Barack Obama, which Mr. Trump rescinded in 2017.[Senate leaders have reached a deal that can end the government shutdown by the weekend.]Federal court decisions have kept DACA in place, and on Tuesday, the Supreme Court again declined the Trump administration’s request to review the legality of the program, almost certainly keeping it in place for the rest of the year. That decision by the court significantly devalued Mr. Trump’s overture to Democrats resisting wall funding.The new Senate measure also includes several provisions that are meant to make it more difficult for migrants to claim asylum in the United States, a legal process that allows people fleeing violence and persecution in their home countries to seek refuge. The changes have been top priorities of Stephen Miller, the conservative White House aide who crafted much of Mr. Trump’s immigration agenda.It would bar Central American children from seeking asylum in the United States, instead requiring them to apply in their own countries, in what the legislation describes as a program that “reduces the incentive for such persons to make the dangerous journey to the United States southern border to request asylum.”But Democrats and immigrants’ rights advocates denounce the plan as cruel. While the Obama administration created a similar program to expedite the claims of Central American children seeking asylum, it never moved to block such minors from applying inside the United States.“These are children who are often desperately fleeing terrible violence back home,” said Representative Diana DeGette, Democrat of Colorado. “They are literally running for their lives and asking for our country to help. Instead of offering them help, this proposal would require border officials to turn a deaf ear to their desperate pleas and send these kids back to the very places they just risked their lives to escape.”A separate provision would allow immigration authorities to quickly remove Central American minors seeking asylum in the United States, a change to an anti-child-trafficking statute that some scholars said would violate international law.“In effect, we are looking at the rapid expulsion of these children,” said Greg Chen of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. “The effect of the law will be to send people back into harm’s way, which would be a violation of international law.”The measure also adds a high bar for asylum claims across the board, mandating that they be deemed “in the national interest.” It would introduce a host of new grounds for deeming an asylum claim “frivolous,” including if the migrant seeking protection was also trying to obtain work authorization, had used a fraudulent document — knowingly or unknowingly — or did not file in a timely way.Republicans are arguing that the bill would do precisely what Democrats have been demanding: reopen the federal government immediately. As an added sweetener to Democrats, the measure also includes $12.7 billion for disaster relief, and would renew the Violence Against Women Act, which authorizes and funds services for victims of domestic violence — and expired at the end of last year.But the Senate math does not work in Mr. McConnell’s favor. He would need seven Democrats to join with all 53 Republicans for the measure to pass. But there are no more than a handful of Democrats in Republican-leaning states — Senators Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, Doug Jones of Alabama and Joe Manchin III of West Virginia — who might vote in favor.A spokesman for Mr. Manchin said the senator would remain undecided until he saw the text of the measure. Ms. Sinema and Mr. Jones have not announced their intentions.House Democrats are also planning this week to bring up a package of legislation to reopen the government and provide some funding for border-related operations, including infrastructure improvements at ports of entry and immigration judges. They are still weighing whether to bring up their own border security proposal as part of a measure to fund the Department of Homeland Security. But given that none of their plans include money for a wall, Mr. McConnell has said he will not bring them up in the Senate.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — The Trump administration said Thursday that it would start blocking a small number of asylum seekers from entering the United States from Mexico, using the San Ysidro border crossing near San Diego as the first location to turn back immigrants applying for refugee status.The policy to block asylum seekers was first announced last month by Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. It will gradually be expanded over the next two weeks at border crossings with heavy foot traffic in Texas, New Mexico and Arizona, according to a senior United States official briefed on the move, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The move is intended to dissuade immigrants, mostly from Central America, from making the long and dangerous journey through Mexico to the southwestern United States border. The policy is likely to intensify pressure on the Mexican authorities, who are already struggling to deal with thousands of Central American immigrants who have applied for humanitarian visas in Tapachula, near the border with Guatemala.It will apply both to some asylum seekers who try to enter the United States at border crossings and to people who are stopped while illegally trying to enter. Asylum seekers generally have been allowed to wait in the United States, often for years, for their cases to be processed.The number of pending immigration cases has grown by nearly 50 percent under President Trump, what many lawyers and advocates say is a crisis.“For far too long, our immigration system has been exploited by smugglers, traffickers and those with no legal right to be in the United States,” said Ms. Nielsen, who described the new protocol as a “methodical common-sense approach” in a statement late Thursday.While she cited the danger posed by adults and criminals, a fact sheet explaining the justification for the new policy, described as “migrant protection protocols,” cited an unmanageable influx of children and families from Central America as the main reason for the change.The protocol was necessary to counter “misguided court decisions and outdated laws that have made it easier for illegal aliens to enter and remain in the U.S.,” Ms. Nielsen said. Under the provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, the new policy can be enforced immediately without congressional approval, she added.Despite President Trump’s efforts to limit refugees, the number of migrants who asked for asylum last year out of fear of returning to their home countries jumped nearly 70 percent from 2017, according to Department of Homeland Security data. Nearly 60 percent of all foreigners asking for asylum were people in families.The announcement was made on Thursday amid tense negotiations between American and Mexican officials over how the policy would be carried out. It was primarily intended to relieve pressure on American immigration officials, but the senior official said it was also intended to highlight what the White House has called a “humanitarian crisis.”Mr. Trump shut down the government over a month ago over demands that House Democrats allocate $5.7 billion for the construction of a wall along the southwestern border. His plan failed in the Republican-controlled Senate on Thursday, leaving no clear path for an end to the longest funding lapse in American history.Under the new policy, asylum seekers who are turned back to Mexico will receive a notice informing them of their right to be heard in United States immigration court after 45 days, officials said.Immigrants rights groups are expected to challenge the move in court, and they are likely to argue that forcing asylum seekers to wait in Mexican border cities puts them at greater risk in a region known for its high murder rates.The Mexican authorities had long expected the move, but were taken aback when they were told early on Thursday that the plan would take effect on Friday.That will force the Mexican government to create a system for processing, housing and protecting the asylum seekers who would now congregate on their side of the border.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanAs President Trump delivered his State of the Union address on Tuesday, two guests sitting in the gallery and listening closely were immigrants he has long known. They cleaned Mr. Trump’s cottage at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J., despite lacking legal status in the United States.Victorina Morales and Sandra Diaz were among some 20 immigrants, many of them facing possible deportation, on the list of guests seated in the secure gallery for the annual address.Even as the president wrapped his speech in a theme of national unity, he made immigration — his signature issue — central to it, as divisive as it may be. His determination to build a wall along the southern border led recently to a 35-day government shutdown, and ahead of the next government funding deadline, on Feb. 15, there is still no deal in sight.“I never imagined I would set foot in such an important place,” Ms. Morales, 46, a native of Guatemala who worked at Mr. Trump’s golf resort for five years, said after the speech. “I was an immigrant representing many immigrants in this country who don’t want to show their faces because of what the president says. I was there for the 11 million undocumented.”Ms. Diaz, 47, a native of Costa Rica who is now a legal resident of the United States, said she “felt like Cinderella” attending the speech. But sitting in full view of the Trump family, whom she had seen frequently at Bedminster, and seeing the president deliver his address, she said, she had hoped he would have kinder words for undocumented immigrants.“It was hard to be face to face with him and realize he didn’t change his position, especially for those of us who helped his businesses prosper,” she said. “I had the trust to be inside his home and serve him.”[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]But the two former housekeepers, invited by a pair of Democratic lawmakers, represent just one side of the fractious immigration debate: Among those Mr. Trump invited were a daughter, a granddaughter and a great-granddaughter of Gerald and Sharon David, a Nevada couple killed in their home last month. An immigrant from Central America who was believed to be in the country illegally has been charged in the case.Republican lawmakers chose guests whose experiences they believe bolstered their calls for a crackdown on illegal immigration and fortification of the southern border.Michael C. Burgess, a Republican lawmaker from Texas, hosted Chris Odette, whose daughter, Chrishia, 13, was struck and killed as she was crossing the street in 2014 by a vehicle driven by an undocumented immigrant who had no driver’s license. The driver was freed on bail and evaded immigration authorities when they went to arrest him, said Mr. Odette, a resident of Rockwall, Tex.“It is important to me to hear that the president is doing something to address the immigration issue,” Mr. Odette said. “People who keep trying to block it don’t seem to care because they are not touched by the loss.”Senator Marsha Blackburn and Representative Tim Burchett, both Tennessee Republicans, invited the parents of Pierce Corcoran, 22, who died in a head-on vehicle collision in December with an undocumented immigrant in the Knoxville area.Also among the Republican invitees were leaders of the United States Border Patrol union, which has been a staunch backer of the president and his plan for a wall on the border.Democratic lawmakers, for their part, hosted immigrants who have been targeted by the Trump administration’s more vigorous immigration enforcement policies, including mothers separated from their children under the “zero-tolerance” border policy, which was suspended in late June amid widespread public outrage.Albertina Contreras and Yakelin Garcia, a Guatemalan mother and daughter invited by Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon, were separated at the border on May 24 and were unable to communicate for more than a month before being reunited on July 12. Having fled domestic violence, they are living in Murfreesburo, Tenn., while they fight in court to remain in the United States.“I want to live here and get papers. It is a privilege to be here,” said Yakelin, who wore a black-and-white dress and a matching blazer for the occasion, which coincided with her 12th birthday.Gerald Michaud, 47, has been living in Brooklyn under Temporary Protected Status since an earthquake ravaged his native Haiti in 2010. The T.P.S. program enables him to live and work in the United States, but the Trump administration has moved to cancel the program later this year for Haitians, Salvadorans and others.“I am proud to represent more than 300,000 immigrants who would like a permanent solution,” said Mr. Michaud, who is a wheelchair attendant at La Guardia Airport and teaches martial arts to at-risk youths. “We are afraid. I am working legally, which I cannot do if I lose T.P.S.”The State of the Union address has long been a platform for presidents to report on key issues and seek congressional support. This is not the first time that it has been used to make a statement about the nation’s lingering divisions over immigration. In 2016, President Barack Obama invited a Syrian refugee to his State of the Union address to send the message that refugees were not a threat to the country.But what will distinguish this year’s speech from past years’ is the sheer number of invitees whose immigration status is uncertain because of the president’s policies.The attorney general of California, Xavier Becerra, delivered the Democrats’ Spanish-language response to Mr. Trump’s address. That, too, focused in part on immigration. “Tonight was about convincing us that, from here on out, the deceit and dysfunction would stop and that cooperation would begin,” Mr. Becerra said. “What we heard was the same tired refrain of building walls.”As for Ms. Morales and Ms. Diaz, the former housekeepers at the president’s golf club, Tuesday night marked a first. Until recently, neither had been to Washington before, let alone attended a joint session of Congress. Their appearance began with an invitation to Ms. Morales from Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman of New Jersey.“This year, there is no issue more important than the way this administration is using immigrants as an excuse to build a wall that doesn’t work,” said Ms. Watson Coleman, who represents the district where Ms. Morales resides.In recent weeks, the two women have been meeting with members of Congress and aides all over Capitol Hill, hoping to spur an investigation into the difference between the president’s harsh words on immigration and his companies’ own hiring policies.“We wanted to highlight the hypocrisy of the administration,” said Jimmy Gomez, the Democratic congressman from Los Angeles who invited Ms. Diaz. “The president demonizes immigrants, documented and undocumented, and also relies heavily on them.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHis populist attacks on the priorities of the “ruling class” have set off a maelstrom.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.Competing notions of American national identity are coming to dominate American politics.On Jan. 2, a searing Tucker Carlson monologue on Fox News resonated across every corner of the conservative movement.“The goal for America is both simpler and more elusive than mere prosperity,” Carlson told his audience. “Dignity. Purpose. Self-control. Independence. Above all, deep relationships with other people.”President Trump is one of the most dedicated Fox viewers in the country. Carlson went on:Our leaders don’t care. We are ruled by mercenaries who feel no long-term obligation to the people they rule. They’re day traders. Substitute teachers. They’re just passing through. They have no skin in this game, and it shows. They can’t solve our problems. They don’t even bother to understand our problems.Carlson, who is in a ratings race with both his Fox colleague Sean Hannity and MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow, argued that many conservatives have scant understanding of the adversity faced by members of the working and lower middle class in America:The idea that families are being crushed by market forces seems never to occur to them. They refuse to consider it. Questioning markets feels like apostasy. Both sides miss the obvious point: Culture and economics are inseparably intertwined. Certain economic systems allow families to thrive. Thriving families make market economies possible.Carlson pointed specifically to problems faced by rural white America, the crucial base of Republican voters: “Stunning out of wedlock birthrates. High male unemployment. A terrifying drug epidemic.” How, Carlson asked, “did this happen?” You’d think our ruling class would be interested in knowing the answer. But mostly they’re not. They don’t have to be interested. It’s easier to import foreign labor to take the place of native-born Americans who are slipping behind.Despite this failing of conservatism, Carlson contended that only the Republican Party can lead the country back to salvation:There’s no option at this point. But first, Republican leaders will have to acknowledge that market capitalism is not a religion. Market capitalism is a tool, like a staple gun or a toaster. You’d have to be a fool to worship it. Our system was created by human beings for the benefit of human beings. We do not exist to serve markets. Just the opposite. Any economic system that weakens and destroys families is not worth having. A system like that is the enemy of a healthy society.The Carlson monologue became an extended subject of debate, which my Times colleague Ross Douthat also examined. For example, in “The Right Should Reject Tucker Carlson’s Victimhood Populism,” David French, a senior writer at National Review, argued that “it is still true that your choices are far more important to your success than any government program or the actions of any nefarious banker or any malicious feminist.”“If an obscure senator gave this speech, he’d be famous overnight,” Kyle Smith, a critic at large for National Review, wrote the next day. “Carlson scores some major points, and like most great speeches this one can’t easily be dismissed as either left or right-wing.”Carlson touched nerves well outside conservative circles. I asked Dean Baker, co-founder of the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research, for his response to the monologue. He replied: “It’s a bit scary to me how much of this I agree with.” Baker quibbled with some minor points, butignoring these off the mark comments, he is absolutely right that the leadership of both parties has largely embraced an agenda that serves the rich with little concern for average workers.In addition to Carlson, one of the most engaged critics of the Republican establishment is Oren Cass, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute and the author of “The Once and Future Worker.”In his book, Cass faults both parties, but his condemnation of the Democratic Party is far harsher than his critique of the Republican Party:Republicans have generally trusted that free markets will benefit all participants, prized the higher output associated with an ‘efficient’ outcome, and expressed skepticism that political actors could identify and pursue better outcomes, even if any existed. Their labor-market policy could best be described as one of benign neglect.Democrats, in contrast,can sound committed to a more worker-centric model of growth, but rather than trusting the market too much, they trample it. The party’s actual agenda centers on the interests advanced by its coalition of labor unions, environmentalists, and identity groups. Its policies rely on an expectation that government mandates and programs will deliver what the market does not. This agenda inserts countless regulatory wedges that aim to improve the conditions of employment but in the process raise its cost, driving apart the players that the market is attempting to connect.In a Salon review of “The Once and Future Worker,” Samuel Hammond, director of welfare policy at the libertarian Niskanen Center — a Washington a think tank I described last week — writes:Indeed, far from the usual conservative manifesto, ‘The Once and Future Worker,’ is a scathing critique of globalization, open immigration, and the commoditization of labor — forces which Cass believes have ransacked working class fortunes across three decades of neoliberal hegemony.Cass is eager to place himself at the disposal of both parties. He was one of 13 ideologically ambidextrous authors of a joint Brookings-American Enterprise Institute report, “Work, Skills, Community: Restoring Opportunity for the Working Class.” The November 2018 study pointed to areas of concord between segments of the right and the left.The 13 authors found common ground on a set of proposals that call for both more spending and tougher work requirements. These proposals include expanding the earned-income tax credit to cover childless workers, including experimenting with a new wage subsidy; getting recipients of government subsidies back to work, including beneficiaries of means-tested government programs; and enlarging eligibility for the child and dependent care tax credit.While it is possible, in theory, that Carlson and Cass could support Democratic candidates, they sharply disagree with the Democratic Party on the highly salient issue of immigration.In his book, Cass writes:The United States should limit increases in its supply of unskilled immigrant labor. This new approach would require first and foremost that criteria for allowing entrance into the country emphasize education level — attainment of a college degree, in particular.In the case of undocumented immigrants, Cass’s policy would be to “require unskilled illegal immigrants to leave.”Carlson is more extreme. On Dec. 4, Carlson told viewers that “a new analysis of census data shows that sixty-three percent of noncitizens in the U.S. receive some kind of welfare benefits,” before adding:Every night, hundreds of thousands of our citizens, Americans, sleep outdoors on the street, they’re homeless. The country’s middle class is shrinking and dying younger. The third year in a row. Again, these are American citizens. Some of them probably think they should have first dibs on help from the government, but they’re not getting it.Later that month, Carlson escalated his claim that immigration was too costly for Americans:It’s indefensible, so nobody even tries to defend it. Instead, our leaders demand that you shut up and accept this. We have a moral obligation to admit the world’s poor, they tell us, even if it makes our own country poor and dirtier and more divided.These comments proved highly controversial, to say the least. According to Business Insider, 16 companies stopped advertising on “The Tucker Carlson Show.”Michael Massing, a New York-based writer who often reports on the intersection of media and politics, watched Carlson for several nights after the January monologue in an attempt to assess where Carlson really stood. In a Feb. 2 article in the Guardian, Massing wrote:Overall, his show continues to transmit Fox’s toxic blend of race-baiting and reality distortion, through which it has done so much to poison the American mind. What, then, to make of Carlson? Is he a cynic? A hypocrite? A headlong pursuer of ratings? Perhaps he’s best described as a charter member of the same ruling class that in his monologue he indicted for working so intently to divide and confuse the American people.In addition to the discrete conservative factions Cass and Carlson represent, there is another dissident wing of conservatism, represented by the Niskanen Center, which attempts to appeal to moderates and centrists of both parties.“Working within the broad and diverse intellectual tradition of liberalism, we are fashioning a new synthesis that closes the rift within that tradition that emerged over the question of socialism,” Brink Lindsey, the center’s vice president for policy, wrote in an essay seeking to explain the broad goals of the organization.Lindsey, in contrast to Cass, is far more critical of the contemporary right than of the left.Over the course of the 21st century, the conservative movement, and with it the Republican Party, has fallen ever more deeply under the sway of an illiberal and nihilistic populism — illiberal in its crude exploitation of religious, racial, and cultural divisions; nihilistic in its blithe indifference to governance and the established norms and institutions of representative self-government. This malignant development made possible the nomination and election of Donald Trump, whose two years in power have only accelerated conservatism’s and the GOP’s descent into the intellectual and moral gutter.Despite his severe view of the Republican Party, Lindsey contends that the goal of the Niskanen think tank is the “reimagining of the center-right”:It is our goal to make the case for a principled center-right in American politics today that is distinctly different from either movement conservatism or its degenerate, populist offshoot.One question, of course is, what kind of policy options a center-right think tank can offer to disaffected voters on matters involving race and immigration, subjects that help drive the very polarization they regret.One of Tucker Carlson’s own primary concerns is immigration — and, as a likely subtext, race.Carlson argues that capitalism is “not a religion but a tool like a toaster or staple gun.” He is focusing attention, in fact, on the godless capitalism that Will Wilkinson of the Niskanen Center, described in “How Godless Capitalism Made America Multicultural” — a problem that Wilkinson correctly points out affects “all wealthy, liberal-democratic countries.”Wilkinson explains:The project of fashioning an ethnoreligious American identity has always been in conflict with a dominant and defining American impulse: to get rich. The United States has always been a distinctly commercial republic with expansionary, imperial impulses. High demand for workers and settlers led early on to a variegated population that encouraged the idea, largely traceable to Tom Paine, that American national identity is civic and ideological rather than racial and ethnic.Contemporary political polarization reflects the intensification of the endless struggle to integrate America and, more recently, to assimilate millions of newcomers, some legal, some not.Wilkinson addresses this conundrum:Assimilation is an issue not because it isn’t happening, but because it is. The issue is that the post-1968 immigrants and their progeny are here at all. And their successful assimilation means that American culture, and American national identity, has already been updated and transformed.This process can be very hard for some people, especially white voters over 50 (a strong Trump constituency) to accept:Swift and dramatic cultural changes can leave us with the baffled feeling that the soil in which we laid down roots has somehow become foreign. Older people who have largely lost the capacity to easily assimilate to a new culture can feel that the rug has been pulled out from under them.The result, according to Wilkinson, to whom I will give the last word, is thatrapid cultural change can make a truly common national identity hard to come by, if not impossible. It’s not clear to me how important it is to have one. But it does seem that a badly bifurcated cultural self-understanding can have very dramatic and potentially dangerous political consequences. David Cameron imperiled the integrity of the entire European Union by fundamentally misunderstanding the facts about the evolution of British national identity and putting it up for a vote. Donald Trump, you may have noticed, has called for a referendum on American national identity, and he’s getting one.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWe asked readers whom they would bring to President Trump’s address on Tuesday. By Lela MooreThe State of the Union address is an elaborate form of political gamesmanship. Members of Congress trot out guests who will help them make a point, good or bad, about the president’s agenda, and vice versa.When we asked readers whom they would invite to the address on Tuesday, we heard from many liberals who described their fantasies of inviting guests to rebuke President Trump. Some people came up repeatedly: Christine Blasey Ford, Colin Kaepernick and immigrants whose families were separated at the border. We also heard from some who chose nonpartisan guests — relatives, personal heroes and co-workers. Here are some of their answers, which have been condensed and edited for clarity.Fred Rogers might have been capable of showing partisan zealots how to listen and get along with one another.— David Hill, Rochester, N.Y. To honor those who serve this country by risking their lives for us.— David B. Nummey, Floral Park, N.Y. My granddaughter Katt Baldwin Greenberg, 29. Katt has had Type 1 diabetes since birth. In that time, the price of insulin, which Type 1 diabetics must take every day to stay alive, has tripled. People with Type 1 diabetes are dying in this country because they cannot afford their life-sustaining medicine.— Julie Goodwin, TucsonColin Kaepernick, because we need to shine a spotlight on racial inequality in America. It can’t be brushed under the shiny hood of so-called respect for the flag. Real respect means striving for the ideal of true equality.— Sophia Naz, Glen Ellen, Calif. Colin Kaepernick is an unwavering voice for racial justice. He has been a phenomenal example of putting principles before personal gain. And I think it would make a lot of the G.O.P. very uncomfortable.— Jennifer Armstrong, Saratoga Springs, N.Y. I would invite the fiancée of Jamal Khashoggi to point directly to the Trump administration’s refusal to hold Mohammed bin Salman, the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, responsible for Khashoggi’s murder.— William Johnston, Higganum, Conn. I would hold up a massive picture of Jamal Khashoggi, front and center, to show the president how he has failed and continues to fail America and American citizens.— Peggy White, Ypsilanti, Mich. A. G. Sulzberger! Support the free press and the next generation. — Elizabeth Greer, SeattleCardi B was a superstar during the government shutdown with her viral tweets and videos. She’s passionate about American politics, specifically presidential history. Plus she is a badass who would bring some spunk to the usually boring political affair!— Vince Cefali, ChicagoAn undocumented immigrant to the United States from El Salvador or Guatemala who has been the victim of gang violence, to demonstrate the humanity of these people and how the United States should be a land of refuge.— Joe Waks, Bayonne, N.J.A baby separated from her or his parents at the border, to remind everyone of that cruelty, and that reunification is not happening quickly.— Sharon M. Anderson, Great Falls, Mont. Jussie Smollett because he was singled out as a victim in a hate crime combining hatred of his skin color with hatred of his sexual orientation. I’d like to draw attention to the unacceptable hatred that is seething in this country.— Jim Arnold, Los AngelesI would invite Jussie Smollett as a concrete, human reminder that racism and homophobia are alive and well in our country and have violent consequences for L.G.T.B.Q. people of color. Feeling safe on the streets should not be a privilege. It should be a right, one that is defended vehemently by the president at all times for all people.— Trish Vawter, Portland, Ore.Ruth Etzel, the former director of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Children’s Health Protection and a world-renowned expert on environmental health, whom the Trump administration placed on administrative leave with pay. Dr. Etzel’s team was getting ready to release new, stricter lead guidelines to protect children. Children will continue to suffer.— Kathy King, Stillwater, Minn. I would invite one of the people who have been unjustly placed in prison for decades and have had their verdicts overturned because of the work of the Equal Justice Initiative, so they could see, face-to-face, the people who appoint federal judges and who have sworn to work for justice in our country.— Barbara Ann Brothers, Staunton, Va. I would invite Christine Blasey Ford because she had great courage, and I know she was telling the truth. She stood up to power and still does. She is a true hero.— Christine Williams, San Jose, Calif. I cannot fathom the strength it takes to tell the entire world about something as deeply personal as sexual assault. She gave a voice to people everywhere who have faced abuse at the hands of those in power, and because of that she is an American hero.— Emerson Ellis, Austin, Tex. David Hogg or Emma González (both survivors of the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., in February 2018). It would be a positive message by young people who are risking their lives and reputations by going public, and doing something about pervasive gun violence in America.— Don Reeck, Whitmore Lake, Mich.The kids from the Parkland high school shooting. They moved the country to think about weapons sales.— Ana Tomassini, ChileLara Takenaga contributed reporting.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of a survivor of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting. She is Emma González, not Gonzales.Lela Moore is an audience writer for the Reader Center. She covers reader reaction to breaking news and popular articles on topics ranging from politics to business to sports. She also moderates the New York Times Reader Center Group on Facebook.  @runlelarun • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensImmigration officials have been force-feeding a half dozen detainees who began a hunger strike to protest conditions at a processing center in Texas where they are being held, the authorities said Thursday.In a statement, Immigration and Customs Enforcement said that as of Wednesday night, 11 detainees in El Paso had refused to eat; four other individuals at different ICE detention centers across the country were also on hunger strike, officials said.Of the 11 people starving themselves in El Paso, six were being hydrated and force-fed under court orders issued by a federal judge in mid-January — about two weeks after those detainees stopped eating, ICE said. Two of the 11 people began their hunger strike on Wednesday, officials added.“The ICE Health Services Corps is medically monitoring the detainees’ health and regularly updating ICE of their medical status,” the agency’s statement said. “Efforts are being taken to protect the detainees’ health and privacy.”A lawyer for two of the immigrants on hunger strike and an advocate who said her nonprofit group had been in contact with nine of them said that those who were force-fed have had to endure pain and had bled from their noses. (Force-feeding is performed using a tube through the nose.)Many of the detainees, the lawyer and the advocate said, came to the United States seeking asylum after fleeing persecution in India. Since arriving in the United States, they have had to withstand verbal abuse from immigration officials and threats about deportation, the lawyer, Ruby Kaur, said.Ms. Kaur said those who went on hunger strike were placed in solitary confinement as punishment. One of her clients has lost between 40 and 50 pounds as a result of the strike, she said.“You’re fleeing persecution, you come to this country, and you are being tortured here as well,” she said. “The only avenue they have is to peacefully protest.”The advocate, Christina Fialho, the co-executive director of the nonprofit Freedom for Immigrants, said as many as 30 people could be on hunger strike in El Paso, a higher figure than the one ICE provided.The use of force-feeding, she said, represented an escalation in the tactics used by immigration officials on detainees.“It’s barbaric,” she added.An ICE spokeswoman did not comment directly on the allegations leveled by Ms. Kaur and Ms. Fialho. But the agency said that it does not retaliate in any way against hunger strikers and that it tells detainees about the negative health effects of not eating. Officials closely monitor the food and water intake of detainees who have been identified as being on hunger strike, they said.The Associated Press reported the hunger strikes and use of force feeding earlier this week.Since May 2015, Freedom for Immigrants has documented 1,396 people on hunger strike in 18 immigration detention facilities across the United States, Ms. Fialho said. Generally, she added, detainees starve themselves as a way to protest unsanitary and abusive conditions at their holding facilities as well as the length of their detention, which often appears to them to be indefinite.Although court orders have allowed officials to administer fluids to detainees intravenously, Ms. Fialho said she was aware of only one other instance — in Georgia in 2017 — when a court allowed someone to be force-fed at an immigration detention center. Attempts to locate the court orders referred to by ICE on Thursday were unsuccessful.Force-feeding people is an “uncomfortable practice” in which “you put in a tube through the nose, and then you pour a nutritional formula through the tube,” said Dr. Arthur Caplan, a professor of bioethics at New York University’s School of Medicine.“Putting the tube through the nose is often painful, particularly if the person is resisting,” Dr. Caplan said.People who are fed involuntarily can lose muscle mass, Dr. Caplan added, and in the Texas case, prisoners could become infection-prone.Top medical associations have condemned the practice. In a 2006 statement, the World Medical Association said “the forced feeding of hunger strikers is unethical, and is never justified.”The number of migrants asking the United States for asylum out of fear of returning to their home countries jumped nearly 70 percent in 2018 compared with 2017, according to Department of Homeland Security data released in December. And as the number of people held at ICE processing centers has swelled, the conditions at them have come under scrutiny.Last fall, the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of the Inspector General issued a 15-page “alert” after an unannounced visit to the Adelanto immigrant detention center in Southern California. Federal inspectors there found that 15 out of 20 cells they looked at had what they described as nooses made of braided bedsheets hanging from vents. The report also raised questions about inadequate medical care and “overly restrictive segregation” of the immigrants housed at the ICE processing center in Adelanto.In the meantime, the Trump administration has made several efforts to limit refugees. In November it announced new rules giving the president vast authority to deny asylum to virtually any migrant who crosses the border illegally. The Supreme Court, however, refused to allow the Trump administration to immediately enforce its new policy.Around the same time in December, the Trump administration announced that the United States would begin requiring people seeking asylum at the southwest border to wait in Mexico for a court ruling on their cases.Elisha Brown contributed reporting and Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam Jordan and Ben ProtessPresident Trump’s family business has employed undocumented workers more broadly than it was previously believed, with multiple workers losing their jobs last month at a Trump golf club in southern New Jersey.The club in Pine Hill, N.J., known as the Trump National Golf Club Philadelphia, was the third Trump property where undocumented workers have been fired since The New York Times reported in December that the Trump club in Bedminster, N.J., for years employed immigrants who were in the country unlawfully.The president’s company terminated about a dozen undocumented workers at the Bedminster property after the article was published, as well as a dozen workers at the Trump National Golf Club Westchester, in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.People familiar with the terminations at Pine Hill said that about five workers at that property were fired or told not to report to work again, including two seasonal employees who were not scheduled to work until the spring. One of the people familiar with the matter said that many other seasonal workers expected to be told not to return in the coming weeks.The revelations about the undocumented workers has been an embarrassment for the Trump Organization, coming to light as Mr. Trump has railed against illegal immigration, blamed undocumented immigrants for crime and pledged to build a wall along the Mexican border to keep more people from entering the country unlawfully.The company has said it was duped by employees who used false identification to get their jobs. But some of the workers in Bedminster told The Times they were kept on the payroll despite the fact that management was aware of the false documents.A spokesperson for the company declined to comment on Friday.The workers at the Pine Hill property said their terminations, which occurred in January, came abruptly.“Just like that, I got fired,” said Victor Reyes, who is from Mexico and worked in the kitchen alongside the chef.“The manager called me and asked, ‘Victor, are you legal?’ I said, ‘No, I am not legal.’ It surprised me because I knew he knew that I was illegal. I have worked for him 16 years and then he asks me,” said Mr. Reyes, who added that it was his first job since crossing the border.Mr. Reyes had worked up from a dishwasher to grilling steaks and preparing a la carte orders, he said, and acquired many cooking skills along the way.The firings at the Pine Hill golf club were the result of a broader audit that the Trump Organization is conducting at its properties across the country, according to people briefed on the review. Although the organization has conducted similar reviews in prior years, this is the largest effort yet to ensure that the company’s employees are authorized to work in the country.The review has presented yet another legal and public relations headache for company executives who are trying to contain the fallout from the revelations. It comes as the Trump Organization is facing wider scrutiny from congressional Democrats examining the company’s business practices.At this point in the review, the issues appear to have been largely concentrated in the Bedminster and Westchester golf clubs, the people said, though the discovery of undocumented workers at the southern New Jersey property show that the matter is more widespread than initially believed. The terminations at the Westchester club were first reported by The Washington Post.The Trump Organization announced on Tuesday that it was using a system — known as E-verify — to prevent undocumented workers from getting jobs at its properties. For the last several years, the company had utilized that system in many of its hotel properties, though it did not adopt it at most of the golf courses.“I must say, for me personally, this whole thing is truly heartbreaking,” Eric Trump, an executive vice president with the Trump Organization, said in a statement on Tuesday. “Our employees are like family, but when presented with fake documents, an employer has little choice.”He said that hiring undocumented immigrants was not a problem unique to the Trump Organization, and that it “demonstrates that our immigration system is severely broken and needs to be fixed immediately.”About eight million undocumented workers participate in the United States labor force, and it is an open secret that they use fake documents to get hired, typically made-up social security numbers and permanent residency cards.The Pine Hill club has an 18-hole golf course surrounded by maple and pine trees on 365 acres. Members enjoy putting greens and a 43,000-square-foot clubhouse where weddings and other events take place. Sitting atop a hill, it boasts a view of the Philadelphia skyline.The golf club employs 100 to 200 people, many of them in seasonal jobs. Immigrants employed there were charged with watering, mowing and manicuring the greens; the upkeep of the banquet hall, which has a 300-person capacity; and preparing food in the club’s restaurant.Because the workers do not have lawyers and remain in the country illegally, two of those who described the firings, as well as their family members, declined to be named.Workers said that those who were terminated were summoned to a meeting with Eric Quinn, the general manager, and a human-resources executive who they believed was from the Trump Organization. Each was told that their documents did not pass inspection after an audit and that they should leave the premises immediately, leaving some of the workers who lacked driver’s licenses to scramble to find rides home.“People were getting fired on the spot, no warning, no nothing. No time to find a job,” said one worker, who declined to be named.The worker said that the immigrants had been treated well by the club’s management and that some of them had broken down when they were fired. “It’s not easy to find a job if you don’t have papers, after you worked there,” the worker said. The general manager, according to several accounts, was said to have lamented the terminations.Executives at the Pine Hill club declined to comment.The problem of undocumented workers at Trump properties came to light in December, when The Times wrote about Victorina Morales of Guatemala, a housekeeper at the Bedminster property who made the president’s bed, washed his clothes and dusted his golf trophies for five years. After Mr. Trump was elected, a manager told her that her fake documents had expired and helped her acquire new ones.Ms. Morales said that on the advice of her lawyer, she stopped going to work on Dec. 4, two days before The Times article was published. The lawyer, Anibal Romero, has said that neither he nor his client had been notified that she was fired, and that her employment status was not clear.Ms. Morales, who is protected from deportation because she applied for asylum, was invited by her Democratic congresswoman, Bonnie Watson Coleman, to attend the State of the Union address on Tuesday. Also attending will be Sandra Diaz, a native of Costa Rica and a legal resident of the United States who said she was undocumented when she worked at the Trump resort. She will be the guest of Representative Jimmy Gomez, a California Democrat.Another undocumented worker, Emma Torres, told The Times that someone in human resources at the Bedminster club had removed her name and other undocumented workers’ names from a list of employees submitted to the Secret Service in 2017. Ms. Torres quit shortly after on her own volition.At Pine Hill, Mr. Reyes said that he was treated well by Mr. Quinn, the general manager, and expressed gratitude for the opportunity to grow professionally during his years at the golf club, where his hard work was recognized, he said. Over the years, on the job his repertoire of dishes grew and he learned English.“I had too many raises,” said the immigrant from Puebla, who said that he earned $18 an hour. The money enabled him to pay his rent and send money to his family back in Mexico.He received his first bonus in all his years working at the club, he said, in late December. In hindsight, Mr. Reyes wonders whether that was because management knew that he would not be welcome back after the winter hiatus.Now, he said, he is seething with a sense of betrayal.“I loved my job. I learned to cook everything. They helped me grow,” he said, erupting in tears. “Now I feel bad. I don’t trust nobody.”Mr. Trump, who during his campaign called Mexicans “rapists” and “criminals,” has made border security and protecting jobs for Americans cornerstones of his presidency. His commitment to erecting a border wall resulted in the recent partial government shutdown.He has deemed illegal immigration “a major, major problem,” and his administration has intensified workplace raids and payroll audits at companies suspected of employing undocumented workers.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTHE GOOD IMMIGRANT Edited by Nikesh Shukla and Chimene Suleyman. (Little, Brown, $28.) A wide range of first- and second-generation immigrant writers articulate their feelings of alienation in America during the Trump presidency. Some of the more notable essays include those from Teju Cole, Porochista Khakpour and Alexander Chee. ONLY IN NEW YORK By Sam Roberts. (Empire State Editions, paper, $19.95.) This is an updated edition of Roberts’s collection of eclectic glimpses of New York City. In short bursts of observation he meditates on everything from the city’s highways to Michael Bloomberg’s wealth. JIMMY NEUROSIS By James Oseland. (Ecco, $27.99.) Oseland is a judge on “Top Chef Masters,” but his memoir looks mostly at his pre-culinary days, when he was in a punk band in late-1970s San Francisco and took “Jimmy Neurosis” as his revealing stage name. THE MISSING PAGES By Heghnar Zeitlian Watenpaugh. (Stanford, $30.) This is the biography of a medieval manuscript, the Zeytun Gospels, illuminated by an Armenian artist. When eight pages of that sacred work that had been thought lost were discovered in the J. Paul Getty collection in 2010, a lawsuit ensued. The story of how the pages came to be missing unfolds the entire tragic history of the Armenian people in the 20th century. THE WILD BUNCH By W. K. Stratton. (Bloomsbury, $28.) Sam Peckinpah’s classic western is lovingly picked over in this obsessive treatment of its making and reception.In which we ask colleagues at The Times what they’re reading now.“British breakdowns are in vogue these days. Theresa May’s troubles. Prince Philip’s car crash. ‘A Very English Scandal’ just won a Golden Globe. I prefer a vintage crackup, personally, with a rail of ’80s excess, so THE PATRICK MELROSE NOVELS has been my recent import of choice. Like the slapstick over Brexit, Edward St. Aubyn’s quintet of novels can be scaldingly funny and achingly poignant. Patrick, played by Benedict Cumberbatch in the TV adaptation, is a tortured toff — abuse victim, drug addict, fading aristocrat — but also an arch observer of his circle, which happens to be the Diana-era Tatler set. (Princess Margaret makes a riotous cameo.) His world is vanishing, done in by populism and profligacy, lending St. Aubyn’s prose an elegiac air. The series of books ended in 2012; one wonders what Patrick would have made of the Leave campaign, and if his country’s predicament would extract a chortle or a sob. Both, I suspect.”— Michael M. Grynbaum, media correspondentFollow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del RealEL CENTRO, Calif. — Donald Trump was on the television, but no matter. Ferdinando Galeana’s customers were watching their plates, not the president.As Mr. Trump delivered an ominous State of the Union address from Washington, which warned repeatedly about the dangers along the southwest border, Mr. Galeana dutifully tended to orders of tacos, horchata and micheladas at D’Poly, the Mexican eatery his family runs here about 10 miles from the Mexican border. What the president was saying on the screen behind him, said Mr. Galeana, would not help his small business, his family or his five dozen employees.“What we need here is someone to help people looking for jobs,” said Mr. Galeana, whose wife and American-born children work with him at the restaurant. “The things he says, they make me laugh.”Residents of El Centro and several other towns along the California-Mexico border have watched with curiosity and apprehension in recent years as the president has escalated his calls for a wall along the southwest frontier. Mr. Trump repeated his warnings about such perils again Tuesday.“Republicans and Democrats must join forces again to confront an urgent national crisis,” Mr. Trump said during his speech, delivered not long after a bitter impasse over funding for a border wall that shut down the government for 35 days. “Congress has 10 days left to pass a bill that will fund our government, protect our homeland, and secure our very dangerous southern border.”[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]On a busy Tuesday night at D’Poly, patrons occasionally glanced at the screen that played the president’s address to the nation. Most paid it no mind at all. Mr. Galeana and others said they had largely tuned out what the president has to say because, too often, his rhetoric is disconnected from what their communities really want. They have struggled to reconcile the president’s warnings about threatening conditions on the border with their own experiences living in this quiet, largely agricultural hamlet.“What he’s saying on the news is different from what we’re seeing here,” said Cecy Magallanes, 45, who is originally from Mexicali, not far across the border in Mexico, and works as a school bus driver.She said Mr. Trump’s previous calls for a border wall seemed “like a strategy to get votes.”“His wall — always his wall,” added Cesar Salas, Ms. Magallanes’s husband, shaking his head.Located on El Centro’s Main Street, D’Poly and its clientele embody the biculturalism of border towns across the Southwest. Farm workers, white-collar professionals, big families and off-duty Border Patrol agents congregate here for tacos, sopes and flavored juices. Modern and minimalist, the restaurant’s gray walls and dark wood floors could be the backdrop of an elegant Crate and Barrel photo shoot — save for an arresting pink mural of Frida Kahlo that instantly sets the room apart. Flashes of pastel pop from behind a tiled bar, which includes a display of “Dia de los Muertos” statuettes.[Read: State of the Union Fact Check: What Trump Got Right and Wrong]English and Spanish are heard virtually interchangeably at table after table. Latin pop plays in the background, songs like “Dónde Estarás” by the Mexican electrocumbia musician Raymix.Mr. Galeana, who owns the restaurant along with his wife, Teresa, said he and his family decorated with the idea of showcasing Mexican culture in a modern setting, a concept that “so often is lost” in Mexican restaurants in favor of stereotypical décor like sombreros.“Our idea was to show that Mexico is not just what the stereotypes say: It’s so much more,” he said. “We are proud of our culture, and we want to show that.”That is what many of those here say they wish the president understood: Immigration and cross-national exchanges are celebrated in these towns along the border.Hildy Carrillo, the executive director of the Calexico Chamber of Commerce, has been sharply critical of President Trump’s immigration policies. She watched with exasperation last year when Mr. Trump called the replacement of the town’s border barrier “the start of our Southern Border WALL!” She said she feared the president’s remark would turn Calexico into an anti-immigration symbol and make it seem unsafe.For that reason, Ms. Carrillo, a Democrat, chose not to watch the speech Tuesday — “one of the few I’ve ever missed,” she said. She went shopping instead, she said, because “I refuse to get stressed out having to listen to him.”Such frustrations are frequently expressed in towns along the southwest border, which spans nearly 2,000 miles from California to Texas. Public officials from El Paso took to social media after Tuesday night’s speech to accuse the president of intentionally misleading the public after he said a border barrier had turned around high crime rates in the city. “Simply put, walls work and walls save lives,” Mr. Trump said.“He lies. @POTUS is once again lying and using the #SOTU address to spread falsehoods about our beloved city of El Paso,” Representative Veronica Escobar, a Democrat who represents El Paso, said on Twitter.A fact check by The El Paso Times on the matter, prepared in January but circulated heavily again on Tuesday night, found the city’s crime rate peaked in 1993, but by 2006 had sharply declined to its lowest level in decades. Construction on the border fence that Mr. Trump appeared to reference began in 2008.The paper also pointed out that, before the Bush-era fence was approved, El Paso and Ciudad Juárez had been separated by a border barrier for decades.Before the speech on Tuesday, Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, a Democrat, denounced “the president’s charade of border fear-mongering” and ordered the withdrawal of most National Guard troops stationed at the border in her state.Many people living along the border, including Mexican immigrants, say they understand the desire for strong border security. But in conversations here in El Centro on Tuesday, even those who agreed with some of the president’s positions were quick to point out that his statements about immigrants, and Mexicans in particular, made them disinclined to support him.Aleyda Montejano, 21, who is Mexican-American, lives in the town of Imperial but goes to hairstyling school in Mexicali because it is less expensive. She said that she agreed with the president that there needed to be a deterrent to illegal immigration. But she said that message was difficult to separate from his tone.“The way he talks about Mexicans, I just don’t agree with it,” she said. “The reason people come here is to have a better life. But, about the border, there are some people that cross illegally and that’s not right.”Brian Arturo Posada, 19, an American citizen who grew up in Mexicali, said that he was sympathetic to some of the things Republicans in Washington talk about, like preventing abuse of social benefits such as unemployment insurance. But he said the president’s tone in past speeches too frequently crossed the line when he talked about immigrants and Mexican laborers.“The only thing that really I didn’t like was when he said all Mexicans are gangsters,” he said. “That’s not true, it’s not true. And when he was keeping those kids in jails, that made me really mad.”Meanwhile, several Mexican laborers in the region said they fear that the president’s warnings about immigrants and crime exacerbates discrimination against them.Cristina Bejarano, 34, a Mexican laborer who picks cilantro and lives in Calexico, about 12 miles south of El Centro, said that life for her and other immigrants in the region can be difficult because of the nature of farm work. But she said she moved to the United States two years ago because, even if farm labor is backbreaking, her life and prospects are better here than in Mexico.She said she wished President Trump and others could understand that.“A lot of people haven’t had a chance to meet any Mexicans,” Ms. Bejarano said. “They say we’re all criminals when we’re not. Just because we’re brown doesn’t mean we’re dirty.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the liberal Democratic upstart from New York, is bringing a sexual assault survivor who cornered a Republican senator in an elevator, demanding to know if he was going to vote to confirm Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh.Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington and a chairwoman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, is bringing a climate change scientist. Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and a Somali refugee, is bringing a Liberian refugee who is threatened with deportation. And all will be wearing white.When President Trump delivers his State of the Union address on Tuesday night to Congress — his first under divided government — the left wing of the ascendant House Democrats will have a rare opportunity to confront him. In 2016, Republicans headed for the exits before President Barack Obama had even finished his final address, and one famously shouted, “You lie!” in 2009 when Mr. Obama addressed Congress on health care.The new Democrats — many of them women, and many of them people of color — are planning to send their own pointed messages to the president with their choices of guests and attire. Many women will wear white — the color of the women’s suffrage movement — to spotlight issues like reproductive rights and equal pay. Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic leader, will be handing out white lapel ribbons to the men.Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, told reporters on Monday that Mr. Trump intends to make some gestures of peace: “He’s calling for cooperation, and he’s calling for comity — c-o-m-i-t-y — and also compromise.”But he may find an inhospitable audience.“I think the goal here is to really show the tremendous step backwards that our country has taken under this president,” Ms. Jayapal told reporters on a conference call on Monday, “and to call out the very specific ways in which he has pushed policies to undermine our climate, undermine immigrants, undermine worker protections and undermine, of course, women’s reproductive rights.”[Some of the Trumps’ guests are the human faces of narratives that the president has been crafting and wishes to advance.]State of the Union addresses are almost always remembered as much for their theatrics as for their policy announcements. Mr. Trump’s, delayed one week by the partial government shutdown, is coming at a particularly tense moment — less than two weeks before the deadline for House and Senate negotiators to come up with a plan for border security that will avert another shutdown.It will also be the first Trump State of the Union address with Representative Nancy Pelosi presiding as speaker. Ms. Pelosi, Democrat of California, an institutionalist and a stickler for decorum, is unlikely to look kindly on any outbursts from her members. She will introduce him as the president of the United States, released by custom from having to utter his name.Congress-watchers are already wondering what the dynamic will be like between her and Mr. Trump — and what messages her body language and expressions will convey — when she stands behind him, captured on television cameras, during the speech.“That photograph is worth the price of admission,” said Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia, who is bringing Amer Al-Mudallal, an Iraq-born chemist who was furloughed from the Environmental Protection Agency during the record-breaking shutdown, along with his wife.“This is a president — I can’t even say he struggles with empathy; he lacks any signs of an empathic capacity to understand the suffering or plight of other people,” Mr. Connolly said, adding, “I want my guest to give witness, by virtue of being here, to the president that real human beings were negatively affected by your shutdown.”Members of Congress each get one ticket to bring a guest to the State of the Union address; sometimes they invite family members, but more often they use their tickets to make a point. Addressing gun violence is high on the agendas of several Democrats.Representative Lucy McBath, Democrat of Georgia, whose son Jordan Davis, 17, was shot to death in 2012 by a man upset that he was playing loud music, is bringing Jeff Binkley, the father of Maura Binkley, 21, who was killed last year in a shooting at a yoga studio in Tallahassee, Fla.Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida, is bringing Manny Oliver, whose son Joaquin Oliver was killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., during the massacre there last year.“I hope the president will take note of how the American people voted to send a gun safety majority to Congress,” Mr. Deutch said in a statement, “and live up to his previous promises to stand up to the N.R.A. and support meaningful policies to make our communities safer.”Mr. Trump’s immigration policy is also top of mind for Democrats this year.Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman, Democrat of New Jersey, is bringing Victorina Morales, an undocumented immigrant who spoke out about her work at Mr. Trump’s golf resort in Bedminster, N.J. Representative Adriano Espaillat, Democrat of New York, has invited Yeni González, a mother who was separated from her three children at the border, while Representative Veronica Escobar, a freshman Democrat from Texas, is bringing an immigrants’ rights advocate whose father has been deported to Mexico.Ms. Omar’s guest, Linda Clark, fled civil war in Liberia in 2000 and has lived in the United States for the past 18 years, but may be forced to leave because of Mr. Trump’s decision to end special protections for thousands of Liberian immigrants.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s guest, Ana Maria Archila, is a resident of Queens who helps direct the Center for Popular Democracy, a progressive advocacy group. She confronted Jeff Flake, then a Republican senator from Arizona, in an elevator during the Kavanaugh hearings. The encounter prompted Mr. Flake to call for an F.B.I. investigation into accusations that then-Judge Kavanaugh had sexually assaulted a women when they were in high school.In an interview, Ms. Archila said she senses a new energy this year around the State of the Union address.“Unlike last year, when Trump had the presidency and the Republicans were firmly in charge of both houses of Congress and essentially enabling his agenda to be forced on the country, this time around, the energy is with the people who protested,” she said. She added that “the wave of women” just elected “speak with so much moral clarity in the face of someone who is so willing to lie and bend the truth and fan the flames of hate and fear.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byin her wordsDemocratic leaders spoke silently at the State of the Union with their choice of guests and white attire.By Maya SalamWelcome to In Her Words, where women rule the headlines. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox. Let me know what you think at dearmaya@nytimes.com.“The goal here is to really show the tremendous step backwards that our country has taken under this president.”— Representative Pramila Jayapal, of Washington, who brought a climate scientist to the State of the Union addressWomen have never held as much power in the United States government as they do now, and on Tuesday night it showed as President Trump delivered his State of the Union address surrounded by a historic number of women. Present, of course, were the 131 women elected to serve in the Senate and House, many of whom were seated together and dressed in all white. White is the color of the women’s suffrage movement, and it was worn to represent issues like reproductive rights and equal pay, my colleague Sheryl Gay Stolberg, a Times congressional correspondent, reported. Women’s numbers at the event didn’t end there, though. Members of Congress, who each get one ticket for a guest to the State of the Union, often employ these invitations to make a political or social statement. And following the Year of the Woman, who better to convey these messages than more women? Or so seemed the thinking of many of the female Democratic leaders present, who sent clear messages about some of the nation’s most contentious issues — women’s rights, transgender rights, climate change, gun violence and particularly immigration — with their choice of guests.[Sign up here to get this column, In Her Words, delivered as a newsletter to your inbox.]Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s guest, Ana Maria Archila, was one of the women who confronted Senator Jeff Flake in September over his planned vote in Justice Brett Kavanaugh’s Supreme Court confirmation hearing. The emotional encounter — in which Archila told him about the impact of sexual assault on survivors’ lives — was filmed and went viral.During the address, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who was seated behind the president, held a stoic expression — though it was occasionally punctuated with a grimace or smirk, and what appeared to be a sarcastic clap ripe for meme fame. She and most of the Democrats stayed mostly seated as members of the G.O.P. continuously rose to their feet and erupted in applause, though the entire gallery broke out in chants of “U.S.A.!” when the president acknowledged the unprecedented number of women serving in Congress. Moments later, those same Democrats sat stone-faced when Trump asked Congress to pass legislation to prohibit late-term abortion.In the chamber, three high-profile female senators who are vying for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination brought guests who have been negatively affected by the Trump administration: Kirsten Gillibrand, of New York, brought Lt. Cmdr. Blake Dremann, a transgender service member in the Navy; Kamala Harris, of California, and Elizabeth Warren, of Massachusetts, invited federal workers impacted by the recent government shutdown. Other Democrats used the platform to elevate those affected by Trump’s unflinching views on immigrants and refugees. Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman, of New Jersey, invited Victorina Morales, an undocumented immigrant from Guatemala who worked as a housekeeper at Trump National Golf Club. “I’m not scared to show my face,” Morales recently said, speaking in Spanish. Representative Jimmy Gomez, of California, invited Sandra Diaz, another undocumented immigrant who worked at the golf club.Representative Ilhan Omar, of Minnesota, a Somali refugee, brought Linda Clark, a Liberian refugee who could be deported after two decades in the U.S. because the Trump administration ended the program she came under. Representative Pramila Jayapal, of Washington, who attended the event with Lisa J. Graumlich, a climate scientist, said that “the goal here is to really show the tremendous step backwards that our country has taken under this president.” Trump also used the opportunity to make statements with his guest choices, which included the family of a couple who were killed by an undocumented immigrant, the father of a Navy seaman who was killed years ago in a terrorist attack and a sixth grader who has been bullied because his last name is Trump.Stacey Abrams, who was narrowly defeated in the Georgia governor’s race in November but has established herself as a rising star in the Democratic Party, was able to deliver her message overtly. She gave the party’s rebuttal to the State of the Union, the first black woman and nonsitting public official to do so. Abrams took aim at the Trump administration, saying that the shutdown was “a stunt engineered by the president of the United States,” and calling on Trump “to tell the truth.” However, Abrams and the president found one point of accord: that it’s time for America’s leaders to cooperate and compromise for the greater good.What did you think of Trump’s long-anticipated State of the Union address, and of Abrams’s rebuttal? Let me know at dearmaya@nytimes.com.______Since 1851, nearly 80 percent of obituaries published in The New York Times have chronicled the lives of men — most of them white men. This month, for Black History Month, we bring you the second iteration of that series — to highlight the remarkable lives of black men and women who were not remembered in our pages. That includes people like Gladys Bentley, above, a gender-bending blues performer during the Harlem Renaissance.______Here are five articles from The Times you might have missed.“This respect for free speech does not equate to anti-Semitism.” Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar, the House’s first two Muslim women, are absorbing blows over their views on Israel, exposing a Democratic Party divide. [Read the story]“Does your husband understand how busy you will be?” Men in Japan do fewer hours of housework and child care than in any of the world’s richest nations. That keeps women from getting better jobs. [Read the story]“We were excluded and felt marginalized.” A former Army captain recounts her work in Afghanistan alongside two teams of Green Berets — one open-minded and mission-oriented, the other prone to sexism and insularity. [Read the story] “In reality older women are the happiest demographic in the country.” Mary Pipher’s new book, “Women Rowing North,” celebrates the unacknowledged talents and wisdom of older women. [Read the story]“The truth is that fetal alcohol syndrome is far more common than people think.” Recommending that pregnant women not drink alcohol has been called old-fashioned and even patriarchal, but the issue is more complex. [Read the story]______That’s what Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman to serve in Congress, said in 1968, shortly after being elected at 42. The article, titled “Freshman in Congress Won’t Be Quiet” (a headline worth recycling), detailed her accomplishments, as well as her outfit choice and weight, the latter of which would surely be excluded today. Chisholm said that she understood that there was an expectation for congressional newcomers “to be seen and not heard,” but that she had “no intention of being quiet” — a motto that seems to have been proudly adopted by Congress’s newest Democratic leaders. Sign up here to get future installments of In Her Words delivered to your inbox. Are you on Instagram? Follow us here.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Refusing to change out of her turtleneck on a sweltering day in Pasadena and being captivated by swaying palm trees.That’s most of what Miriam Tellez Sorrosa remembers about arriving in the United States from Mexico when she was 7.“I had not seen palm trees in my life,” she said. “I thought they were going to fall.”Ms. Tellez Sorrosa is now 22 and a “Dreamer” — she’s among the roughly 700,000 young immigrants brought into the United States as children, who were shielded from deportation under the Obama-era program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.She’s getting ready to graduate from Cal State University Fullerton, where she’s worked extensively with other undocumented students through the school’s Titan Dreamers Resource Center.And on Tuesday, at the invitation of Representative Gil Cisneros, she was in the chambers of the U.S. House of Representatives as President Trump delivered his State of the Union address.Mr. Cisneros, who represents the 39th District, which includes parts of Los Angeles, Orange and San Bernardino Counties, said he wanted the president to see that students like Ms. Tellez Sorrosa are assets to the country.“This is her home; this is where she wants to make a difference and we need to be embracing that,” he said.While President Trump has consistently used dire language about immigrants who come into the country illegally, his position on DACA recipients has shifted.In 2017, he moved to end DACA, then last month, he offered to extend protections for DACA recipients in exchange for border wall funding.In the State of the Union, he returned to describing a crisis on the border.I talked to Ms. Tellez Sorrosa on Wednesday about visiting Washington and listening to the president. Here’s our conversation, edited for length and clarity.Jill Cowan: What did being at the State of the Union represent for you?I think the biggest thing for me was just understanding the history of it, to think the place where I was going to be was the place where generations of individuals were making laws that now affect me.What being undocumented means to me is my resilient identity. So for me, I feel like it’s almost like a responsibility and a necessity to share my experience.What was it like to be in Washington as the guest of a congressman?Yesterday there was a period of time where I was shadowing him in his meetings and that just blew my mind.What I love about it, too, was that everybody’s experience and narrative is unique and there’s not like, “This person’s guest is more important than this person’s guest.” It was just a handful of American people being present. That was one of the most magical things, to share the room. I feel like that’s what America always strives to be: With the people and for the people.Was there another guest that you really felt like you connected with? I was super excited to hear that there were going to be more DACA recipients attending and there was this moment where we were all in the same room. I was just like, “Yes.”What was it like listening to the speech? In a way, I was happy about where my seat was. I couldn’t really see him. It helped me just listen to what he was saying. There were things where I was like, “I believe this, too.”When he talked about immigration and immigrants, I paid a lot more attention. I think because I’ve known his rhetoric and how he talked about immigrants, that wasn’t a surprise. I was indifferent to it.But I’m learning research now as a sociologist, and I was like, there’s so many potential flaws in this. I want to know where your information is coming from.[Read The Times’s fact check of the State of the Union here.]Do you mind if I ask what you wore? I laugh because I was freaking out about what to wear. I was coming into a space where these people are people with power, economic status, everything. How do I fit in? I think I went the safe route, wearing business professional clothing. I did wear a white shirt in support of a lot of congresswomen.On campus, we have a Dreamers’ graduation and in our Dreamers’ graduation we have a sash. So I actually asked for my sash in advance as a statement piece. I was hoping it would spark dialogue.How are you going to use this experience going forward?I’m definitely not as afraid as I was before.I have until 2020 with my permit. And that’s kind of my safety net, so I’m going to try to do as much as possible while I have DACA and I’m going to continue to advocate for something bigger that will just benefit not only the Dreamers, quote-unquote.Last question: Do you think that you might want to run for office someday? One of my Lyft drivers, as I was telling him about why I’m here, he was like, “I like how you talk, you should run for office.” And I was like, “Would I have your vote?” He was like, “Yes!”Definitely, being here and being present and seeing people being passionate about moving forward the agendas that are important to them and making every single topic special and important has motivated me to get more involved.(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• A gas line explosion shot a massive fireball into the street, and knocked out power for thousands in San Francisco on Wednesday. Workers for an unspecified contractor hit the line while they were digging to install fiber optic cables. All of the workers were eventually accounted for. Pacific Gas and Electric Co. was investigating. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Border residents in towns like El Centro shrugged off President Trump’s warnings during his State of the Union address. But they took issue with his characterizations of Mexicans and Mexican-Americans: “They say we’re all criminals when we’re not. Just because we’re brown doesn’t mean we’re dirty.” [The New York Times]• Global warming isn’t some abstract thing in the future. Last year, the Earth’s average surface temperature was the fourth highest on record, and part of an unmistakable warming trend. [The New York Times]• “Health care was the single most important issue to voters in the 2018 election,” said Representative Anna G. Eshoo, a Democrat from California. Now she and her colleagues are starting a campaign to protect coverage for pre-existing conditions. [The New York Times]• That Budweiser Super Bowl commercial where Bob Dylan’s “Blowin’ in the Wind” plays over sweeping shots of the American heartland? Yeah, that was actually Tejon Ranch, in yet another instance of California standing in for Not California onscreen. [The Bakersfield Californian]• Thank you for being a friend — and learning about ageism and sexism: Cal State Long Beach has a “Golden Girls” class that explores how older women are perceived, and how the show took on taboo issues like the AIDS crisis and discrimination. [Long Beach Post]California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNot recognizing the intersection of both parts of his identity prevents us from fully understanding what’s at stake with his arrest by ICE.By Samuel GetachewMr. Getachew is an Ethiopian-American high school student and poet, and a delegate to the International Congress of Youth Voices.On Sunday, United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested the rapper 21 Savage, stunning his fans by declaring that he is a British citizen and has overstayed his visa. The arrest comes just months after the 26-year-old musician’s latest album, “I Am > I Was,” debuted at the top of the Billboard 200 and just days after he sang on national television against President Trump’s policy on family separation. The rapper, who is also up for two Grammys this Sunday, now faces imminent deportation. Within minutes of the announcement of his detention, the internet was flooded with memes making light of the news, and fans who thought he was born in Atlanta seemed to believe that he had betrayed them.Their reactions have demonstrated what I have come to see, in my own experiences as a black son of immigrants, as an ingrained American inability to think about both blackness and immigration simultaneously and through a complex lens. According to ICE, 21 Savage, born She’yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph, entered the country legally with his parents in 2005 when he was about 12 years old but remained after his visa expired a year later; his lawyers have said that he came to the United States much earlier, when he was 7. Rather than being appalled at the arrest, many responded with wisecracks. As the Washington Post pop music critic Chris Richards reported, “seemingly stunned by the strangeness of the breaking news,” some of the “citizens of rap-Twitter,” as he called them, “reflexively launched into joke torrents, superimposing 21’s face onto images of Buckingham Palace guards and translating his lyrics into Cockney slang.” While some prominent musicians have come to his defense, many of the memes about 21 Savage imply that despite his having lived in Georgia since he was a young boy, his British origin somehow disqualifies him from claiming it as his home. They imply that he is somehow a lesser rapper — that his claim to hip-hop and black American culture is now illegitimate. “21 not a blood; he’s a redcoat,” a person commented on Twitter. At first glance, these reactions could be viewed simply as harmless jokes. And maybe some just had a hard time conceiving that a rapper could be British. But their dismissiveness hit close to home with me, bringing up my own experiences in which similar attitudes have been all too prevalent. I remember the first time someone told me that I am not black. I was in middle school. A boy who had just found out that my parents were from Ethiopia turned to me and said, “Wait, I thought you were black?” I stared blankly, giving no response. “Nah, bro, you’re African.” I neither accepted nor denied this. A couple of months later, I was asked the same question. This time I replied, “What’s the difference?” Silence. A shrug. I was left not knowing who or what I was, feeling as though I was trying to fulfill a position I was unqualified for.I faced this false distinction at home as well. The first time I heard the world “black” used like it meant something dirty, I was around 9 or 10 years old. This experience is common for children of the African diaspora. It was probably a holiday or someone’s birthday, and my family was gathered together. The men sat in the living room, their laughs bellowing through the walls, talking about politics (Ethiopian and American), each louder than the other. Suddenly, the conversation shifted to race. Someone announced to a chorus of groans: “I am not black. I am African. I am Ethiopian. I know where I come from.” And then my mother’s swift rebuttal: “Here, our sons are black. Whether you like it or not, this country doesn’t care.” Yet again, I was left not knowing what to call myself or who I was. Years later, I remember this conversation when I am being followed in a store. Being Ethiopian does not exempt or shield me from American racism.It seems that a narrow view of the word “black” in an American context is preventing blackness from being allowed to coexist with other identities and racism from being allowed to coexist in conversations with other issues — especially immigration. In the case of 21 Savage, the mocking comments also show a lack of full recognition for how often ICE’s policies target black immigrants and how hurtful they can be. An ICE spokesman has reportedly said that 21 Savage’s “whole public persona is false.” Through such claims, ICE has tried to diminish 21 Savage’s career because of his immigration status and by implying that his experiences as a black man in America, chronicled by much of his music, are invalidated because of his birthplace. 21 Savage has overstayed his visa, but, as his lawyers have pointed out, this was “through no fault of his own.” One of his lawyers has said that ICE has known about his client’s immigration status and his whereabouts since he applied for the visa that would make him legal here, at least a couple of years ago. He also noted that his client “is clearly not a danger to the community, and in fact, his contributions to local communities and schools that he grew up in are examples of the type of immigrant we want in America.” Some have questioned the timing of ICE’s move, given that the rapper had been convicted of felony drug charges in 2014 (the conviction was reportedly later expunged). In the legal saga surrounding 21 Savage, I found unexpected validation. Here is a public figure who is very much black, and also an immigrant — an image that we don’t see enough and that I could have used when I was younger and grappling with my identity. It’s clear to me that 21 Savage is an immigrant and a black man, and neither invalidates the other. The foreign heritage of black immigrants like 21 Savage as well as first-generation children of African immigrants such as myself doesn’t counteract their blackness, and vice versa. It is not our responsibility to choose one identity. The inability to recognize both simultaneously has kept some from viewing his case as critically as they should. We as a society should not view race and immigration status as mutually exclusive.  Although it took the arrest of a prominent black man by one of the most feared government agencies in our nation to get us here, we are now finally starting to have a conversation about the intersection of blackness and immigration.Samuel Getachew is an Ethiopian-American high school student and poet, and a delegate to the International Congress of Youth Voices.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Alex MarshallLONDON — Andrea Levy, a prizewinning author whose novels chronicled the experience of Jamaican immigrants in Britain, died on Thursday night. She was 62.Her death, from cancer, was confirmed in a statement by Headline, her publisher. It did not say where she died.Ms. Levy, whose books included “Small Island” and “The Long Song,” was seen by many as the voice of tens of thousands of people who migrated to Britain from its former colonies in the West Indies after World War II to help rebuild the country, only to encounter racism.Her father, Winston Levy, was one of the more than 490 people aboard the passenger liner Empire Windrush when it arrived in Britain in 1948 from Jamaica. The immigrants came to be known as the Windrush generation.But Ms. Levy’s books spoke to a far larger audience than just those of West Indian ancestry in Britain. Uzodinma Iweala, reviewing Ms. Levy’s “Fruit of the Lemon” for The New York Times in 2007, said the novel “illuminates the general situation facing all children of postcolonial immigrants across the West, from the banlieues of France to the Islamic neighborhoods of New York to the Hispanic ghettos of Los Angeles.”Andrea Levy was born in London in 1956 to Jamaican parents of mixed descent. She grew up in public housing near the Highbury stadium that used to house the London soccer club Arsenal.“The racism I encountered was rarely violent or extreme,” she wrote of her childhood in “Six Stories and an Essay,” “but it was insidious and ever-present and it had a profound effect on me.”“I hated myself,” she added. “I was ashamed of my family, and embarrassed that they came from the Caribbean.” She said she had tried to act as British as possible.Ms. Levy studied textile design and became a costume assistant, working at the BBC, among other places. But in her 20s she had a “rude awakening” to the issues of race while working for a sex-education project, she wrote.She recalled attending a racism-awareness course, in which participants were asked to gather by race. She instinctively walked toward the group of white people, only to be beckoned to the other side of the room. The questions over identity “sent me to bed for a week,” she wrote.Ms. Levy started writing in her 30s, after taking a creative-writing class, but publishers were not really sure what to do with her at first, she told The Guardian in 1999. “They were worried that I’d be read only by black people,” she said.The rejections spurred her on, she said, adding, “It’s grist to my mill.”She published her first novel, “Every Light in the House Burnin’,” in 1994, but her biggest success came in 2004 with “Small Island,” the story of a Jamaican couple of the Windrush generation and the problems they experience once they move to Britain.“Levy portrayed with often heartbreaking wit the hardships faced by her parents’ generation,” the author Fernanda Eberstadt wrote in The Times. “It’s easy to understand why she has become something of a celebrity in Britain.”“Small Island” won the Orange Prize for fiction, now known as the Women’s Prize for Fiction, and the Whitbread Award, now known as the Costa Award, for the book of the year. Ms. Levy was shortlisted for the Booker Prize in 2010 for “The Long Song,” her last novel.Ms. Levy’s books attracted renewed attention in Britain recently as a result of  a scandal involving members of the Windrush generation. Many longtime legal residents of Britain with Caribbean ancestry lost their jobs, were denied medical care and were even detained and threatened with deportation because they could not prove that they had lived in the country since before 1973. The uproar over their treatment was an embarrassment for the British government.Ms. Levy is survived by her husband, Bill Mayblin, a graphic designer.A stage adaptation of “Small Island” is scheduled to open at the National Theater in London on April 17, while “The Long Song” was adapted for television by the BBC last year.“I’ve never been busier,” Ms. Levy was quoted as telling the Guardian journalist Gary Younge, a close friend, in a tribute to her by him that was published on Friday. She added, “Shame I won’t see any of it.”Follow Alex Marshall on Twitter: @alexmarshall81.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Patrick KingsleyBERLIN — Faced with a plummeting population, rising labor shortages and widespread emigration, Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary has long taken an unconventional approach to increasing the size and productivity of Hungary’s work force.He offered university scholarships only to those who promised to stay in Hungary. He gave citizenship to ethnic Hungarians living beyond the borders. And late last year, he increased the amount of overtime employers can demand of workers — to 400 hours a year.But on Sunday, Mr. Orban announced one of his most ambitious plans yet: Any Hungarian woman with four or more children will no longer pay income tax.Anything to avoid immigration.“We are living in times when fewer and fewer children are being born throughout Europe. People in the West are responding to this with immigration,” Mr. Orban said in a speech on Sunday. “Hungarians see this in a different light. We do not need numbers, but Hungarian children.”No country in the European Union has a fertility rate high enough to replenish its population without immigration — but Hungary, with about 1.5 children per woman, is among the most sluggish. It also is among the most reluctant to accept foreign workers to help plug the gaps.Even in the Czech Republic and Poland, where anti-immigrant sentiment also runs high, governments are planning to admit, or have already admitted, workers from across Asia.But Mr. Orban, a far-right leader, has said he does not want the color of Hungarians to be “mixed with those of others.” He led European opposition to refugees during the 2015 migration crisis and has boxed himself into a rhetorical corner that now makes it difficult to change direction.“Hungary is facing similar structural challenges as other neighbors,” said Milan Nič, an expert on central and Eastern Europe at the German Council on Foreign Relations. “But in Hungary, the government’s policy choices are more limited by its nationalist ideology.”Instead of encouraging immigration, Mr. Orban said on Sunday that in addition to eliminating taxes for mothers with four or more children, he would reduce mortgage and car payments for parents; introduce new loans for families; allow grandparents to share maternity leave; and increase day care places.The measures constitute “a regulation of women’s bodies,” said Andrea Peto, a gender studies professor at the Central European University, a college in Budapest. “Their bodies are being used as a resource for national development.”But some of the measures might lessen Hungary’s gender inequality since they would make it marginally easier for women to balance “their double role as mothers and members of the work force,” Professor Peto said.In particular, the construction of 21,000 new kindergarten places could make it easier for more women to go back to work. “This is a good step in the right direction,” Professor Peto said.Still, demography experts said the measure was unlikely to succeed in its primary goal of growing the native Hungarian population. One of the few programs that historically succeeded in boosting the population took place in Communist-era Romania, a totalitarian dictatorship in which abortions and birth control were banned.Like Hungary, France introduced financial incentives in 2005, but since then its birthrate has remained at around 1.9 children per woman, said Sarah Harper, a demography professor at Oxford University. And it might even have been lower without the influx of immigrants, whose birthrates are typically higher than native-born residents.“You have to ask: how much is it down to the financial incentives, and how much is it migration and an ethnically diverse population?” Professor Harper said.Sweden has managed to keep its birthrate above 1.8 children per woman — but only by making it far easier for women to return to work than in Hungary. Unlike in Hungary, child care in Sweden is free for all. Fathers can take parental leave as well as mothers, and in tandem they receive 55 weeks of leave at near full-pay, more than double that allotted to Hungarian mothers.“There needs to be a package that enables women to take time off work, to return to work, and to combine work with child care, and to give similar support for fathers as well as mothers,” said Professor Harper. “Otherwise the most likely thing is that they will withdraw from the labor market.”But in Hungary, where voters are generally more conservative than in Sweden, the measures were nevertheless likely to be a vote-winner in elections for the European Parliament later this year, said Csaba Toth, a political analyst at the Republikon Institute, a research group in Budapest.“In Western Europe there might be a different interpretation, but in a country like Hungary, Orban’s position will be popular,” Mr. Toth said. “It’s targeting middle-class families.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Christina Goldbaum[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Facing serious overcrowding in immigration courts, federal authorities in New York adopted a high-tech solution last year: Immigrants would be kept in detention centers for their legal proceedings, appearing before judges only by videoconference.Now, a new lawsuit claims that the policy infringes upon immigrants’ constitutional rights in a deliberate attempt to speed up and increase deportations.The lawsuit, filed on Tuesday in the Federal District Court in Manhattan, asserted that detained immigrants could not fully communicate with their lawyers and participate in proceedings when their only interaction with immigration court was through video.As a result, the lawsuit said, immigrants who might otherwise be granted the ability to stay in the United States instead could be deported. The suit cited several instances when videoconferencing had harmful effects on immigrants and their hearings.One immigrant spent three extra months in detention because his jail’s one videoconferencing line connecting inmates to immigration court had been double booked.Another was afraid to testify about his sexual orientation because Immigrations and Customs Enforcement officers at the detention facility where he was being held were listening as he spoke to the court in a videocall.The interpreter for a third had difficulty understanding an immigrant as he sobbed through his two-hour testimony, because his words were muffled over the audio feed of the videoconference.ICE has justified videoconferencing as an efficient way to address the backlog at the immigration court on Varick Street in Manhattan.An ICE spokeswoman said she could not comment on pending litigation.But the lawsuit said the videoconferencing was “merely pretext for the true reasoning behind the policy — limiting due process, access to the courts and counsel for immigrants in an effort to rush deportations and deport more people.”Immigration courts have been overwhelmed by cases for over a decade, but the suit put a spotlight on efforts under the Trump administration to tackle the backlog by speeding up proceedings. The strategy has drawn criticism from immigration lawyers, advocates and judges, who argue that expediting proceedings can rob immigrants of a fair trial.To address overwhelmed dockets, former Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced in April 2017 that the Department of Justice would bring on an additional 125 immigration judges, at least 44 of whom have been hired.Mr. Sessions also imposed policy changes the Justice Department called common-sense reforms to increase the efficiency of immigration courts.But immigration lawyers argued that prioritizing speed has come at the expense of due process.“This push toward efficiency over due process is particularly Trumpian,” Andrea Sáenz, the supervising attorney at Brooklyn Defender Services, said. The videoconferencing policy in New York is part of a larger trend of addressing the backlog by focusing “on what the government or ICE thinks is faster or cheaper, instead of giving people full and fair hearings,” Ms. Sáenz said.The plaintiffs in the federal suit include Brooklyn Defender Services, the Legal Aid Society and the Bronx Defenders, all of which offer free legal services to immigrants facing deportation as a part of the New York Immigrant Family Unity Project, a program funded by the New York City Council. Low-income people in immigration detention do not otherwise have a right to a lawyer if they cannot afford one.In previous years, judges frequently used their discretion to close some cases they deemed “low priority,” to take them off their dockets indefinitely and reduce the backlog.But Mr. Sessions restricted judges’ ability to do so, arguing in a decision in September that closing certain cases was “not a free-floating power an immigration judge may invoke” solely to create space on their docket. Advocates said this has added to the backlog.In June, the ICE field office in New York announced the policy in which detained immigrants would appear in court by videoconference instead of being brought to the court on Varick Street.At the time, ICE officials presented the policy as a security measure, after a group of demonstrators gathered outside the court to protest the administration’s “zero tolerance” immigration policy.The announcement also came three days after President Trump suggested that people who came into the United States illegally be sent back to their home countries without due process, the suit noted.“When somebody comes in, we must immediately, with no Judges or Court Cases, bring them back from where they came,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter.Even when the Varick Street protests ended, the New York policy remained in place. The use of videoconferencing “is more efficient, providing an economic savings to taxpayers, while continuing to ensure the safety of ICE employees, the court, the public and the detainees,” an ICE spokeswoman said in a statement in December.Videoconferencing is sometimes used in regions where judges are hours away from the jails, prisons and detention facilities where immigrants are held to help expedite procedural matters, such as scheduling hearings or accepting documents.A 2015 study by the U.C.L.A. law professor Ingrid Eagly found that deportation proceedings of detained immigrants heard by videoconference were adjudicated more quickly, in fewer days and with fewer trials, than those heard in person. But detained immigrants whose cases were heard through videoconferencing were also more likely to be deported.In New York, the introduction of videoconferencing for all proceedings meant that lawyers could no longer conduct on-site interviews to determine if a detained immigrant was eligible for free legal services, discuss how a client wanted to proceed in their case, or review strategies and clarify facts confidentially.Videoconferencing “does not always paint a complete picture” of a detained immigrant, said Judge Amiena Khan, speaking as the executive vice president of the National Association of Immigration Judges, the judges’ union. “Sometimes it’s more difficult to interact, to judge eye contact and nonverbal cues like body language,” all of which are critical to making determinations about an immigrant’s claims, Ms. Khan said.The suit, which is seeking class-action status, claimed that it was also more difficult for detainees to follow proceedings by video, especially when there were technology failures or when people required translators, who could not do simultaneous interpretation unless the immigrant appeared in person.Additionally, the suit contended that a shortage of videoconferencing lines and the failure of the technology had resulted in immigration judges routinely delaying scheduled proceedings or adjourning them altogether when lines were not available, prolonging immigrants’ detention.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEncouraging and exploiting division has worked for Trump, as far as his own electoral prospects are concerned. Can he keep it up?By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.However often President Trump strays from his favored political strategy, he faithfully returns to it like a dog to a bone: first, polarize the American electorate along racial, cultural and economic lines, then exploit the schisms that have supplanted the class divisions that were once central to both American and European partisan politics.On one side of the divide are those whom the political scientists Pippa Norris and Ronald Inglehart describe in a 2016 paper as comfortable with “an inexorable cultural escalator moving postindustrial societies steadily in a more progressive direction.” This new direction amounts to what the authors callan intergenerational shift toward post-materialist values, such as cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism, generating rising support for left-libertarian parties such as the Greens and other progressive movements advocating environmental protection, human rights, and gender equality.On the other side, Norris and Inglehart write, is a counterrevolution, aretro backlash, especially among the older generation, white men, and less educated sectors, who sense decline and actively reject the rising tide of progressive values, resent the displacement of familiar traditional norms, and provide a pool of supporters potentially vulnerable to populist appeals.Economic distress, they argue, reinforces cultural alienation to produce fertile terrain for Trump. “Fears of economic insecurity, including the individual experience of the loss of secure, well-paid blue-collar jobs, and the collective experience of living in declining communities of the left-behinds” combine to make votersmore susceptible to the anti-establishment appeals of authoritarian-populist actors, offering simple slogans blaming “Them” for stripping prosperity, job opportunities, and public services from “Us.” The collision of these forces has produced the emergence of an American authoritarianism. In their book, “Cultural Backlash: Trump, Brexit and Authoritarian Populism,” which comes out later this week, Norris and Inglehart write that Trump has assumed leadership of this authoritarian movement,defined as a cluster of values prioritizing collective security for the group at the expense of liberal autonomy for the individual. Authoritarian values prioritize three core components: 1) the importance of security against risks of instability and disorder (foreigners stealing our jobs, immigrants attacking our women, terrorists threatening our safety); 2) the value of group conformity to preserve conventional traditions and to guard our way of life (defending “Us” against threats to “European values”); and 3) the need for loyal obedience toward strong leaders who protect the group and its customs (“I alone can fix it," “Believe me,” “Are you on my team?").The United States and many European countries, at various points in the last decade, have reached a critical juncture, Norris and Inglehart write: “The interwar generation, non-college graduates, the working class, white Europeans, the more religious, men and residents of rural communities” have come to feel “estranged from the silent revolution in social and moral values, left behind by cultural tides that they deeply reject.” These men and women, “until recently the politically and socially dominant group in Western cultures,” reacheda tipping point at which their hegemonic status, power and privilege is fading. Their values make them potential supporters for parties and leaders promising to restore national sovereignty (Make America Great Again), restrict immigration and multicultural diversity (Build a Wall) and defend traditional religious and conventional moral values.The debate over whether the rise of right-wing populism is driven by cultural anxiety, racism, ethnocentricity or economic deprivation may “be somewhat artificial,” Norris and Inglehart contend becauseinteractive processes may possibly link these factors, if structural changes in the work force and social trends in globalized markets heighten economic insecurity, and if this, in turn, stimulates a negative backlash among traditionalists toward cultural shifts. It may not be an either/or question, but one of relative emphasis with interactive effects.In this country, the nominally class-based politics of the New Deal fractured when working class non-college whites felt abandoned by a Democratic Party that shed its pre-civil rights, segregationist southern wing and that by the 1970s had adopted a culturally and racially liberal agenda. Over the past five decades, these white voters have formed the core of the populist right. Conversely, minorities, many of whom face the same economic hardships as working class whites, if not worse, are firmly aligned with the party of social and cultural liberalism and racial equality, the Democratic Party.“The new cultural cleavage dividing Populists and Cosmopolitan Liberals,” Norris and Inglehart write, is “orthogonal to the classic economic class cleavage” — in other words, the new division cuts across and splits the old economic class solidarity.Data from a preliminary American National Election Studies survey — provided to me by Matthew DeBell, a scholar at Stanford’s Institute for Research in the Social Sciences — revealed the strength of this new cleavage. The survey asked 2,500 men and women to rank their feelings toward Trump on a “feeling thermometer” scale of zero, “very cold or unfavorable,” to 100, “very warm or favorable.”The results illustrate that the population is even more divided between those who love and those who hate Trump than we might think. Sixty-one percent had either extremely hostile or very positive feelings toward the president.Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory University, analyzed the responses to the survey. He wrote me that nearly two out of five of those surveyed, 38 percent, put Trump in the coldest range, 5 degrees or lower. 23 percent, put him in the warmest range, 95 degrees or higher. If the definition of extreme is expanded to encompass those who rank Trump from 0 to 10 and from 90 to 100, the total grows to 72 percent — 44 percent at 10 degrees or lower, 28 percent 90 degrees or higher.Abramowitz noted that “Trump is the most polarizing president in the history of ANES polling and Gallup polling.”Not only is Trump the most polarizing president, he has monopolized public attention and managed to make himself the object of both loathing and adoration.“The 2020 elections will certainly be all about Trump, assuming he is on the ballot and to a considerable extent even if he is not,” Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, wrote me in an email. “The 2018 election was all about Trump even though he was not on the ballot.”Stanley Feldman, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, elaborated on Trump’s self-generated centrality in an email:While Democrats and Republicans were already quite polarized before Trump ran for the presidency, I don’t think there is any question that he has contributed to further polarization. It is increasingly difficult to find people who don’t feel strongly about him.Trump, Feldman noted,taps into some fundamental issues in contemporary American politics — race/ethnicity, social issues, nationalism — and his rhetoric — clearly designed to appeal to his base — turns off many of those who are not with him on those issues. When you do little or nothing to broaden your support beyond your core voters you will generate extreme affective reactions.Feldman posed the question:Will this make the 2020 election largely about Trump? To a great extent yes, though the answer to that will depend in part on who the Democratic candidate is. As we saw in 2016, negative reactions to Hillary Clinton contributed to the outcome of that election.Feldman’s point about Clinton leads to the next question. As the Democratic selection of a nominee begins in earnest, one issue threatens the cohesion of the center-left coalition: whether the party should support expansive liberal initiatives like Medicare for All, a sharp hike in tax rates on the rich and a Green New Deal or whether it should stake out the center.Columnists who lean toward the center themselves have been particularly sharp in their criticism of the leftward movement of the party.“Democrats Are Boosting Trump’s Re-election Prospects,” read the headline of a National Journal article last week by Josh Kraushaar: Their top 2020 presidential hopefuls are embracing socialist-minded economic policy, from a Green New Deal to single-payer health insurance. It’s playing right into the president’s hands.Gerald Seib, a columnist at The Wall Street Journal, wrote earlier this week that “Democrats have arrived at a moment of great opportunity, but also of great peril.”Increasingly, he argued, the party has becomeidentified with policy proposals that are easy for Republicans to caricature as left-wing extremism. It is a fair bet that a majority of congressional Democrats don’t support either a 70 percent top tax rate or an across-the-board wealth tax on the richest Americans.In addition, Seib noted, “the party is beginning to experience the consequences of a zero-tolerance attitude on perceived misbehavior.”According to Seib, “Democrats face this question: Could they manage to scare off that center just as it has become so available?” The risk, Seib wrote,is that centrist voters will think they see that an angry left wing taking charge. Democrats could appear to be succumbing to the national mood of anger, when the better image might be of hope.In his State of the Union address on Feb. 5, Trump laid the groundwork for an assault on Democrats, declaring:Here, in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country. America was founded on liberty and independence — not government coercion, domination, and control. We are born free, and we will stay free. Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country.I asked Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at Tufts who is one of the directors of the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, whether Democratic primary voters are pushing presidential candidates to take stands on issues further to the left than the general electorate would accept.Contrary to the view of many political analysts, Schaffner countered with data suggesting that this is not the case.“I actually don’t think Democratic primary voters are substantially more liberal than Democrats more broadly,” he wrote, adding that many of the party’s new policy initiatives are, in fact, “favored by a majority of those who voted in 2016.”He cited the following results from the 2016 Cooperative Congressional Election Study survey.Who favored granting legal status to immigrants? Democratic primary voters: 79 percent support; Democrats in general: 77 percent support; all voters: 55 percent support.Who would require minimum amounts of renewable energy? Democratic primary voters: 85 percent support; Democrats in general: 80 percent support; all voters: 61 percent support.Ban assault rifles? Democratic primary voters: 91 percent support; Democrats in general: 84 percent support; all voters: 64 percent.Eliminate mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent offenders? Democratic primary voters: 84 percent support; Democrats in general: 78 percent support; all voters: 67 percent.How about raising the minimum wage to $12 per hour? Democratic primary voters: 92 percent support; Democrats in general: 90 percent support; all voters: 65 percent.Along similar lines, four political scientists, John Sides and Christopher Warshaw of George Washington University, and Lynn Vavreck and Chris Tausanovitch of UCLA, write in a March 2018 paper, “On the Representativeness of Primary Electorates” that “primary voters are frequently characterized as an ideologically extreme subset of their party, and thus partially responsible for increasing party polarization in government.” On the contrary, they find “that primary voters are similar to rank and file voters in their party” and thus “the composition of primary electorates does not exert a polarizing effect above what might arise from voters in the party as a whole.”Jacobson of UCSD strongly agreed, arguing that Democrats’ intense dislike of Trump will make them willing to forgive a candidate who fails to adopt all their favored policies if the candidate looks like a winner:Most Democrats will have as their prime goal — far more important than positions taken by the candidates — making sure Trump does not have a second term.The national election survey cited above reveals the depth of the electorate’s divisions on a range of issues in the Trump era.On what may prove to the crucial subject of debate over the next two — impeachment — the public is split.The survey found that a 42.1 plurality favors impeachment, including 24.9 percent who favor it strongly. A slightly smaller 38 percent oppose impeachment, including 30 percent who oppose it strongly. 19.9 percent did not take a stand.Americans are evenly divided in their assessment of Trump’s repeated denials that neither he nor his campaign ever coordinated with Russia to defeat Hillary Clinton. According to the survey, 49.9 percent agreed with the statement “Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign probably coordinated with the Russians,” while 50.1 percent said the campaign “probably did not coordinate.”One of Trump’s signature claims during the 2016 campaign was the promise that he would “drain the swamp” of corruption in the nation’s capital. That promise, according the public, is not holding up well.The survey asked “Has corruption in government increased, decreased, or stayed the same since Donald Trump became president?” The result? More than half, 54 percent, said corruption has increased under Trump, including 26.6 percent who said it has increased “a great deal.” 28 percent said the level of corruption remains unchanged, and 18.4 percent said corruption had decreased. 3.1 percent said corruption had decreased “a great deal.”Trump has railed against the Mueller investigation since it began, calling it an “illegal Joseph McCarthy style Witch Hunt.” Asked about the Mueller investigation, 45.1 of those surveyed said they approved, 16.6 points more than the 28.5 percent who said they disapproved, 19.7 percent “extremely strongly.” 28.4 percent had no opinion.Trump has pushed the authoritarian envelope further than any president (or major party presidential candidate) in recent memory.Let’s turn back to Gary Jacobson. “As long as Trump is on the scene, the nation is bound to remain deeply divided,” Jacobson writes in “Extreme Referendum: Donald Trump and the 2018 Midterm Elections,” which will appear in a forthcoming issue of Political Science Quarterly:To the extent that he reshapes the Republican Party in his white nationalist image, these divisions will deepen further and every election, like the 2018 midterms, will be fought with both sides convinced that nothing less than the future of American democracy is at stake.Norris and Inglehart suggest that the dependence of the populist right on older voters may lead to its steady decline as those voters die off, but they are not confident that this will happen. “It remains to be seen how resilient liberal democracy will be in Western societies, or whether it will be damaged irreparably by authoritarian populist forces” they write at the conclusion of their book. “The problem is not just Trump, nor is it just America. It reflects pervasive economic and cultural changes, for which there are no easy answers.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Caitlin DickersonAfter prompting the longest government shutdown in history, President Trump’s divisive proposal for a border wall has taken a back seat in recent days for negotiators in Congress who are seeking to avoid another crippling closure. The latest talks have focused on another immigration issue that has exploded in recent months: Record numbers of migrants being held in cramped detention centers.Under orders to end the process that the president calls “catch and release,” the authorities have arrested and jailed tens of thousands of migrants since Mr. Trump took office, and Republicans would like it to stay that way.Democrats argue that ordinary immigrants around the country are being unnecessarily plucked from their families and jailed, and newly arrived migrants are being forced to wait unreasonable lengths of time in harsh detention centers.At issue is how much money the budget should provide for detention. Without more money, the authorities will have to scale back on arrests.“We’ll be releasing gang members. We’ll be releasing individuals convicted of domestic violence and drug crimes,” said Matthew Albence, deputy director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. “We will not be able to respond to as many calls as we do today. And in fact, in many of these calls, we’re going to tell them, ‘Just release them,’ because we have no choice.”Democrats point out that more than a quarter of current ICE detainees are not subject to mandatory detention under the law.Both Republicans and Democrats are citing competing data to claim that the new budget proposal advances their goals. Here’s what the plan really says:Months of brinkmanship between Congress and the White House over the border wall have distracted from the issue of detention, which has now reached a breaking point, with the authorities being urged by the White House to arrest more immigrants than they can currently afford to detain.With little support for a robust border wall on either side of the aisle within Congress, Republicans and Democrats have moved on to detention, which is also expensive, and has implications for recent border crossers as well as immigrants with firmly established roots in the United States.Mr. Trump’s strict enforcement agenda has pushed the population of detained immigrants to the highest levels in history, with the authorities sweeping into immigrant-heavy locales to arrest vast numbers of the undocumented, as well as immigrants who have violated the terms of their visas (usually through criminal convictions), making them deportable.Under sweeping policy changes introduced by Mr. Trump, ICE has gone after immigrants who were once not targeted, repopularizing workplace raids, arresting community leaders, and using previously frowned upon tactics to ferret out anyone who can be expelled from the country. As a result, the average daily population in immigration detention for the 2019 fiscal year has reached 45,890. ICE currently has funding to house only 40,520 people.Republicans are saying that they secured money for 5,000 additional immigration detention beds, while Democrats are saying that they managed to bring down detention numbers by 17.4 percent. Technically, both are true. Here’s why:Both parties agreed in the proposal to fund an average daily population for 2019 of 45,724 ICE detainees, or about 5,000 more than the 2018 budget provided — allowing Republicans to claim their success.But in order to reach that average by Sept. 30, the last day of the fiscal year, ICE will gradually have to decrease its detained population to 40,520, which represents about a 17 percent decrease from the 49,057 who are currently detained.Republican aides suggested in internal communications that the number of detained immigrants could reach 58,500 under the proposal through a process called reprogramming, which allows agencies to adjust their budgets to address unforeseen emergencies.Under reprogramming, federal agencies can take money that has been appropriated by Congress for specific matters, and use it to fund other things. And though it is meant to be used sparingly, the Department of Homeland Security has often used reprogramming to fund extra detention beds.Though it is a common tactic, Democrats argue that the amount of money that would need to be reprogrammed in order to reach 58,500 detention beds, $750 million, would be unprecedented.And they argue that the congressional committees that are now controlled by Democrats would never approve such a large amount.The Department of Homeland Security has historically deferred to such committees for approval before reprogramming funds, though it is not technically required.The deal provides funds for $1.375 billion in physical barriers along the border, far less than the $5.7 billion that Mr. Trump requested for his border wall. The money could be put toward 55 miles of new fencing, using only “currently deployed designs.”The proposal also provides funding to revamp holding facilities that are used by Customs and Border Protection, which came under renewed scrutiny after the deaths of two young migrant children around Christmas.And it would refund Obama-era programs that were eliminated under Mr. Trump, which had provided alternatives to detention for certain immigrants. Those who had been enrolled in the programs were allowed to roam freely, using GPS ankle bracelets and other incentives devised to make sure they showed up for court.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court agreed on Friday to decide whether the Trump administration may add a question about citizenship to the 2020 census questionnaire that will be sent to every household in the nation.The court’s move added a highly charged and consequential blockbuster to what had been a fairly sleepy term. The justices have mostly avoided controversy while they adjusted to the new conservative majority created by the arrival in the fall of Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh.The federal government has long gathered information about citizenship, but since 1950, it has not included a question on it in the forms sent once a decade to each household. Last month, a federal trial judge blocked the Commerce Department from adding the question, saying that the process that led to the decision was deeply flawed.The Supreme Court stepped in before any appeals court had ruled on the matter, and it put the case on an unusually fast track. The Supreme Court’s speed was almost certainly a result of a looming deadline — the census forms are set to be printed in June.Without immediate action from the court, the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, told the justices, “the government will be disabled for a decade from obtaining citizenship data through an enumeration of the entire population.”The Supreme Court scheduled arguments for late April, and it is expected to rule before the end of June.The case — United States Department of Commerce v. New York, No. 18-966 — is the latest test of the scope of executive power in the Trump era. Last year, the justices upheld President Trump’s authority to restrict travel from several predominantly Muslim countries. More recently, the court rejected the administration’s request to reinstate a ban on asylum claims by immigrants who cross the southern border illegally.On Friday, Mr. Trump said he expected his declaration of a national emergency to build a border wall to be challenged in court. He predicted that the administration would lose in the lower courts but prevail in the Supreme Court.The census case has its roots in the text of the Constitution, which requires an “actual enumeration” every 10 years, with the House of Representatives to be apportioned based on “the whole number of persons in each state.”“By its terms, therefore, the Constitution mandates that every 10 years the federal government endeavor to count every single person residing in the United States, whether citizen or noncitizen, whether living here with legal status or without,” Judge Jesse M. Furman of the Federal District Court in Manhattan wrote last month in his decision, setting out the consensus view.Critics say that adding the question on citizenship would undermine the accuracy of the census because both legal and unauthorized immigrants might refuse to fill out the forms. By one government estimate, about 6.5 million people might decide not to participate.That could reduce Democratic representation when congressional districts are drawn in 2021 and affect the distribution of hundreds of billions of dollars in federal spending. Judge Furman found that were the question added, Arizona, California, Florida, Illinois, New York and Texas would risk losing seats in the House and that several states could lose federal money.Dale Ho, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, which challenged the addition of the citizenship question, said that it “would cause incalculable damage to our democracy.”“The evidence presented at trial exposed this was the Trump administration’s plan from the get-go,” Mr. Ho said.Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, has said that he ordered the question to be added in response to a December 2017 request from the Justice Department, which said that data about citizenship would help it enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965.In a detailed decision after an eight-day trial, Judge Furman concluded that Mr. Ross had dissembled, saying that “the evidence is clear that Secretary Ross’s rationale was pretextual.”“While the court is unable to determine — based on the existing record, at least — what Secretary Ross’s real reasons for adding the citizenship question were, it does find, by a preponderance of the evidence, that promoting enforcement of the” Voting Rights Act, or V.R.A., “was not his real reason for the decision,” Judge Furman wrote. “Instead, the court finds that the V.R.A. was a post hoc rationale for a decision that the secretary had already made for other reasons.”Judge Furman had called for Mr. Ross to be questioned under oath, but the Supreme Court blocked that order in October. Justice Neil M. Gorsuch, joined by Justice Clarence Thomas, said the court should have gone further, shutting down all pretrial fact-gathering in the census case. Justice Gorsuch added that there was no indication of bad faith in Mr. Ross’s conduct.“There’s nothing unusual about a new cabinet secretary coming to office inclined to favor a different policy direction, soliciting support from other agencies to bolster his views, disagreeing with staff or cutting through red tape,” Justice Gorsuch wrote at the time. “Of course, some people may disagree with the policy and process. But until now, at least, this much has never been thought enough to justify a claim of bad faith and launch an inquisition into a cabinet secretary’s motives.”In November, the Supreme Court rejected a request from the Trump administration to halt the trial, over the dissents of Justices Thomas, Gorsuch and Samuel A. Alito Jr.In his ruling last month, Judge Furman relied on evidence in the so-called administrative record, meaning the materials the government said Mr. Ross had considered before making his decision.Evidence presented at the trial showed that Mr. Ross had wanted to add the question long before the request from the Justice Department. The letter from the Justice Department, Judge Furman wrote, was an attempt “to launder their request through another agency — that is, to obtain cover for a decision that they had already made.”Documents disclosed in the case showed that Mr. Ross had discussed the citizenship issue early in his tenure with Stephen K. Bannon, the former White House chief strategist and an architect of the Trump administration’s tough policies against immigrants, and that Mr. Ross had met at Mr. Bannon’s direction with Kris Kobach, the former Kansas secretary of state and a vehement opponent of unlawful immigration.“In a startling number of ways,” Judge Furman wrote, “Secretary Ross’s explanations for his decision were unsupported by, or even counter to, the evidence before the agency.”Judge Furman ruled that the administration had violated federal statutes. But he rejected a constitutional challenge based on equal protection principles, saying that there was not enough evidence in the record to conclude that Mr. Ross had intended to discriminate against minorities and unauthorized immigrants.The lawsuit challenging the addition of the question was filed by New York, other states, localities and advocacy groups. They said that asking the question was a calculated effort by the administration to discriminate against immigrants.“Adding a question about citizenship to the census would incite widespread fear in immigrant communities and greatly impair the accuracy of population counts,” Letitia James, New York’s attorney general, said on Friday after the Supreme Court agreed to hear the case.In urging the Supreme Court to review Judge Furman’s decision, Mr. Francisco, representing the Trump administration, wrote that Mr. Ross had wide discretion over the census that could not be second-guessed by courts. He added that questions about citizenship have often been asked of at least a sample of the population in many earlier censuses and are commonplace in ones conducted by other developed democracies.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCutting the number of beds in ICE facilities will just make things worse for immigrant detainees.By Anita Isaacs and Anne PrestonMs. Isaacs is a professor of political science at Haverford College. Ms. Preston is a professor of economics at Haverford College.As congressional negotiators were wrestling their way toward a compromise bill to fund the federal government this week, one sticking point emerged: the demand by Democrats to reduce the number of beds for immigrants detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. And while the details are complicated, Democrats claim that the legislation, which President Trump is expected to sign Friday, will bring the number of beds to 40,520, down from 49,057.But while well intentioned — the list of problems with the immigrant detention system is long — if the Democrats get their way, they will likely make conditions much worse for the tens of thousands of undocumented migrants and asylum seekers in limbo on both sides of the border.Cutting back beds highlights two major objections to the detention system. First, the system is an integral component of a private prison-industrial complex owned by a handful of companies, whose profits rely on mass incarceration. Second, because of the Trump administration’s criminalization of prospective asylum seekers and undocumented migrants, the vast majority of detainees are either Central American families fleeing horrific violence or law-abiding Central American and Mexican members of American society. About 58 percent of detainees have no criminal record, and only 20 percent have been convicted of serious felonies (including selling marijuana).We have spent the last few years researching migrant flows into the United States, and this data is consistent with research our team has conducted with roughly 300 returned Central American and Mexican migrants. For the most part, Central Americans were detained after crossing the border as they awaited an asylum hearing, while the majority of Mexicans spoke of being raised in the United States, playing by the rules and being apprehended for minor traffic violations — speeding, a broken taillight or driving without a license. None of the handful of deportees who were found guilty of more serious crimes had languished in immigration detention. They had been summarily deported after serving time in federal prison.Detention facilities also hamper the ability of both prospective refugees and undocumented migrants to gain asylum or to successfully plead their case to remain in the United States. Such facilities limit inmates’ communication with the outside world, a situation further compounded by their remote location. And once locked up, detainees are deprived of the means to earn the income required to hire the professional lawyers they need to have a realistic chance of success.The treatment migrants receive in detention centers is inhumane. While the traumas that detained children face are well documented, the adult immigrants we interviewed also told countless stories of abuse, including racist taunts, physical aggression and the deprivation of their most basic needs. Jason, a young man voluntarily traveling back to Mexico by bus, was apprehended on the bus and detained because his visa had expired two weeks earlier. He was sent to a detention facility. He told us of begging for food, only to have a guard toss a burrito onto the floor of a fly-infested cell that reeked of excrement. Israel Concha, a young man stopped for speeding and separated from his pregnant wife, described an immigration hearing in which he was prevented from even touching his newborn son.Such stories make it easy to see why Democrats pushed to shrink ICE’s capacity to detain people. But cutting back on capacity will not solve the abuses of immigration detention. In fact it is more likely to make things worse (a fact that Democrats have quietly conceded by allowing ICE to adjust the facilities’ capacity if they need to, which is why Republicans claim the actual number of beds allowed is much higher). It is foolhardy to imagine that, in response, the Trump administration will simply detain fewer people, in order to guarantee them all a bed. If anything, it will double down its enforcement of existing policies, rendering the lives of detainees even more of a living hell.Increasing numbers of prospective asylum seekers, subjected to the Remain in Mexico policy, would be dispatched to dangerous tent cities in Mexican border towns to wait their turn. Undocumented immigrants would be herded into increasingly cramped quarters or into county jails where conditions are even worse. Florizel, an undocumented Mexican teenager and convert to Mormonism whom we interviewed, described being apprehended and held in a county jail surrounded by pedophiles and murderers, “They left me in the cell for like almost like a whole day without water without food. And it was really cold. I would ask them, ‘Hey, but I didn't do anything!’ And they would just tell me to ‘shut up, friggin’ Mexican.’”Despite its horrors, many apprehended undocumented immigrants opt for detention as the least awful option. Those without a criminal track record are typically given a choice. They can leave the United States voluntarily, or be placed in detention to fight their removal. The vast majority of people we interviewed chose detention because they want a chance to defend themselves and can’t face the prospect of upending their entire lives by leaving. Mr. Concha opted for detention with the faint hope of preserving his life in the United States. “I wanted to fight ’til the end,” he told us. “I had a company and all my family was here. I wanted to know the final outcome instead of wondering all my life, ‘What if I would have fought? What if I did have a chance? What if the laws change?’”To the extent that Democrats are serious about immigration reform, restricting beds is more a gimmick than a solution. Absent the comprehensive reform desperately needed, Democrats should use their new political capital to protect migrant rights. That means demanding more humane treatment at detention centers, guaranteeing the right to asylum for refugees from the region, assuring due process for the majority of undocumented migrants who are upstanding members of our society, and requiring that ICE focus its resources on detaining and deporting only those migrants who have committed truly serious crimes. We know what is needed. What we lack is the political will and commitment to push forward an agenda that restores humanity and legality to a broken and corrupt system.Anita Isaacs is a professor of political science at Haverford College. Anne Preston is a professor of economics at Haverford College.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIn the land of tall tales, this president knows how to win a fight. By Richard ParkerMr. Parker is the author of “Lone Star Nation: How Texas Will Transform America.”EL PASO, Texas — The battle of the border was an epic desert showdown between two gifted politicians, each marshaling around 10,000 people, one blessed with the truth, the other peddling lies. And yet, to Donald Trump’s mystifying credit, the lie survived to fight another day. We tell some tall tales here in Texas. But no Texan is a match for this president.As day broke here in my hometown yesterday, it looked like after years, Mr. Trump’s lies about the border had finally run out. Amid his showdown with Democrats over his proposed border wall — which had already led to an unpopular 35-day-long government shutdown — Mr. Trump was coming to El Paso to make his case once again: “Build the wall.” The people of El Paso, with the local hero and presidential Hamlet Beto O’Rourke as their public face, had a response: “We’re safe not because of walls but in spite of walls. We’re safe not in spite of immigrants but because of immigrants.”Ahead of the president’s visit, normally taciturn local politicians turned on Mr. Trump for falsely claiming in recent weeks that El Paso, the second-largest border city in America, was swamped by an immigrant crime wave until a fence went up. The English-language daily, El Paso Times, proclaimed: “Local leaders ready to tell El Paso’s story.” The Spanish-language daily, El Diario, more startlingly heralded, “El Paso, National Battleground.” The officially nonpartisan mayor, Dee Margo, laid into Mr. Trump on Twitter, outraged: “El Paso was never one of the most dangerous cities in the U.S.”As Air Force One approached, winds whipped up to 50 miles per hour as people streamed toward the County Coliseum, formerly a site for livestock shows and rodeos, where Mr. Trump held what amounted to his kickoff rally for the 2020 election. This is not Trump country. After all, he’d branded the entire border, where millions of Americans live, a violent wasteland. Business leaders groused that the president had been bad for business, endangering $70 billion in local trade with Mexico while scaring away businesses with tales of immigrant mayhem. The County Commissioners Court is on the record opposing a wall cutting through downtown. El Paso voted nearly 3-to-1 against him in 2016.For a moment, it seemed the president would finally get his comeuppance here — a definitive and undeniable repudiation of his monstrous and unpopular pet project.On the merits, Mr. Trump should lose the battle hands down. The crime rate in El Paso peaked in 1993. Then it fell steadily for years finally settling at about 370 violent crimes per 100,000 people. Lower than a city El Paso’s size, like, say, Boston or the national average.Organized by some 50 local groups, the March for Truth gathered at least as many or even more people than Mr. Trump’s rally, winding its way to a field directly across from the County Coliseum. Some skewered Mr. Trump, sure; “Not today, Satan,” read one sign. But most people, like Cathy Benavidez, a retired social worker, came to defend their hometown’s reputation. “I’m just embarrassed by what Trump has said because it’s not true,” Ms. Benavidez said. Her hand-lettered sign said, in glitter, “Stop the wall, stop the lies, El Paso has always been safe.”Mr. O’Rourke appeared in shirt sleeves, despite plummeting temperatures, but with his usual upbeat attitude. In a brief interview over the rising voice of a mariachi singer, he said: “This is El Paso so I want to take every opportunity to support the cause, the culture and the community.”He helped bring out 10,000 supporters, according to local organizers, maybe as many as 15,000. Mr. Trump brought 6,700 to the old rodeo arena, according to the fire department, with a few thousand more stamping their feet in front of the parking lot Jumbotron. The truth — or at least the facts — made steady progress in El Paso.But that didn’t stop the lies, like Mr. Trump claiming 35,000 people came to see him while just 200 went to see Mr. O’Rourke. There is nothing the president won’t lie about. He even encouraged followers to chant “Finish That Wall,” though there’s been no construction since he became president on any kind of wall he promised, just fences ordered up since 2006. I tried to count the lies during his speech but had to stop after 10. My Stetson is off: The guy is a gifted and gratuitously generous liar.“Thanks to a powerful border wall in El Paso, Texas, it is one of the safest cities,” he insisted even after the uproar. And the crowd roared. Of course, I had parked my car by the 18-foot bollard border fence a block away; there was no wall, just like there were no 10,000 MAGA fans milling around outside.But the truth is plodding, getting its pants on, one leg at a time, while a lie races halfway around the world, as the old saw attributed to Mark Twain goes. Mr. Trump’s tales of kidnappings and mayhem, too, are far more racy than the truth. El Paso has problems. The international bridges carry tens of millions of people, cars, trucks and rail cars each year; they’re not getting inspected. But that is tedious. I grew up here and El Paso does have a crisis: too much poverty and too little education. But that is boring.Mr. Trump’s lies are dime novel, pulp fiction, heart-pounding, mesmerizing and that’s where they derive their power. Regardless, word came that evening that congressional negotiators would give Mr. Trump about $1 billion for more steel barriers, which he will call a wall and then declare victory. It will be anything but that.The president’s biggest cheerleader, Lindsey Graham, is absolutely right when he says “the wall has become a metaphor.” And Henri Rafael, a Trump fan I met at the rally, is absolutely right, too: “A border wall is very much needed. But it’s not about the wall anymore.” His friend in a pink MAGA hat, Monica DeMoss, chimed in: “These people need to go out and work.”The wall is about whatever you want it to be about: welfare, immigrants, race, class, socialism, you name it. It will never be an actual, 30-foot wall from sea to shining sea, as Mr. Trump once promised. He is, in fact, losing on the merits, bit by bit. But he will still get his monument: a metaphor that just as effectively divides the nation, even if a real wall never divides the border here, in El Paso.I’ll hand it to the guy: No Texan could tell a taller tale.Richard Parker is the author of “Lone Star Nation: How Texas Will Transform America.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A previous version of this article misidentified the largest border city in the United States. It is San Diego, not El Paso.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLetter 94By Damien CaveThe Australia Letter is a weekly newsletter from our Australia bureau chief. Sign up to get it by email.___Parliament approved a bill this week to allow medical evacuation for asylum seekers on Nauru and Manus over the opposition of Prime Minister Scott Morrison, throwing Australia into another visceral debate over immigration.In the coming months, with an election approaching, we can expect to hear all kinds of intense and moralistic rhetoric.Mr. Morrison and his supporters are already arguing that opening the door even a little to settlement in Australia will encourage a flood of migrants and deaths at sea. Labor, the Greens and others on the left are maintaining that immigration is a net positive for Australia and that cruelty must be restrained.This is all part of a broader conversation across the West about migration and national identity; the White House announced just today that President Trump will declare a state of emergency to build a border wall.And it’s a conversation that matters. These disputes, however they end up, will shape many countries, and the world, for decades.But for me, there’s a certain familiarity to the discussion, not just in Washington but also in Canberra.I’ve written about immigration for nearly 20 years, from various countries, from the neighborhoods and towns where immigrants cluster to the halls of power where decisions are made.Along the way, there are a few things I’ve learned to look out for.The Hero Vs. Villain TrapIn heated moments like this one, immigrants and the nuances of their lives and motivations tend to be reduced to the most simplistic of archetypes.Either they are criminals (the worst of the worst, rapists, murders, pedophiles) or they are blameless hard-working heroes (say, doctors or professional basketball players from Australia in the N.B.A.).The reality — and this should be obvious, but often gets overlooked — is that most migrants are in the messy middle with the rest of us. They’re good and bad, they’re parents and workers, and they’re mostly just trying to make life a little bit better for themselves and their loved ones.This idea that they are somehow different and more extreme reflects little more than the political need for narrative and division. Beware of the packaging of simplicity.“It’s a Fact-Free Zone”When I was reporting a series of stories back in 2012 — the first to show that the era of mass Mexican migration was over — an expert I talked to warned that policymakers would ignore my findings.Immigration, he said, is an issue driven by emotion. “It’s a fact-free zone,” he said. And he was right.No matter how many cold hard facts get put into the public domain in the next few months — and I hope there are a lot of them — don’t expect the politicians to adjust their arguments. They’re appealing less to the head than the heart.And look out for what’s missing too.You probably won’t hear anyone, for example, pointing out that the decision to migrate is typically a long-term bet, calculated and paid for over several years, which rarely responds to immediate policy changes in predictable ways.There are both push (from a country) and pull (to a country) factors and, according to sociologists and demographers, it is often impossible to make sweeping cause-and-effect conclusions based on one element alone.Every immigrant has a story all their own. People move and flee for reasons that often have very little to do with what policymakers do to deter or assist them.Interaction WinsDuring a long road trip from the Mexican to the Canadian border, for a project exploring immigration in Middle America, I met dozens of Americans with all kinds of views about immigration.But there are two people, both older white women, who I still think about.One was in Farmers Branch, Texas, an area that had tried, but failed, to push out immigrants who might not be documented with a series of strict residential rental rules and policing. She told me through her locked screen door that she wanted tougher enforcement; she was afraid.Another was in Wichita, in Kansas, in an area that had gone from a declining white, working-class community to one that was reviving but more mixed in terms of ethnicity and origin.The woman’s name was Francene Sharp. You can read her full story here, but what stuck with me was her reaction to a break in at her home by some local Mexican teenagers.She had cause to be angry. But because she’d spent years getting to know many of her other immigrant neighbors — including a friend who she called for help right after the break in — her response and her views were tempered and calm.What she had (that the woman in Texas did not) was real-life interaction, enough of it to prevent her from making sweeping judgments about people or policy.She relied on her own deep experience and a remarkable openness to combat the “fact-free zone” and the “hero/villain trap.”Border policy was on her radar; she was no supporter of “open borders.” But she was far more interested in why those teenagers who broke in were not at home studying. Integration and community mattered more to her than border walls.Which brings me to what I’ll be looking for in this year’s Australian (and American) immigration debate.Will there be people pushing the conversation beyond border enforcement and detention?Who, if anyone, will be asking: How can immigration be studied, discussed and shaped in conjunction with immigrants to ensure that Australia (the country that often calls itself “the world’s most successful multicultural nation”) lives up to that promise?Now for a few stories of the week (plus a few surprising recommendations from Paul Krugman).As always, you can share your thoughts in our NYT Australia Facebook group. And if you’re enjoying this newsletter, don’t forget to share it and tell your friends to sign up too.___A few years ago, that lake you see above (it’s in the Swiss Alps) didn’t exist — it was just ice. Now, with glaciers melting all over Europe due to climate change, the dynamics of the land, and tourism, are changing.But not everyone in Switzerland is upbeat about it; don’t miss our magazine profile of the tiny Swiss company that thinks it can help stop climate changeAnd while you’re at it, read our Op-Ed on climate change and the frightening new normal in Australia.___Several women say Ryan Adams — who had a reputation in the music business for drunken misbehavior back when I covered music years ago — offered to jump start their music careers, then pursued them sexually and in some cases retaliated when they spurned him.He denies the claims. But The Times talked to several women with similar accounts, and the reports are already stirring a conversation about the consequences of a “sex, drugs and rock ‘n’ roll culture” that has defined rock music for decades.___If you’re not already a regular listener to The New York Times’s award-winning podcast, The Daily, go back and listen to this episode, which captures a conversation between our publisher, A.G. Sulzberger, and President Trump.It will help you understand how The Times thinks, less in terms of politics than in terms of journalism and journalists around the world.___Lots of good stuff this week, tilting toward enterprise reporting and analysis:• The Strange Experience of Being Australia’s First Tech Billionaires: In a country where wealth usually comes from mining or banking, Scott Farquhar and Mike Cannon-Brookes of Atlassian are a new kind of mogul. And they’re getting into politics.• In Tour of Australia, Chinese Admire Clean Air but Bemoan Lack of Hot Drinking Water: We spent four days with a group of Chinese tourists visiting Australia. The visitors and locals approached each other with confusion, skepticism and sometimes racism.• New Zealand Fears Fraying Ties With China, Its Biggest Customer: The cancellation of a tourism initiative and the abrupt return of an Air New Zealand flight has many suspecting Chinese retaliation for a ban on Huawei.• Australia to Allow Medical Evacuation for Nauru and Manus Island Detainees: Prime Minister Scott Morrison had opposed the bill, which will let some asylum seekers held on Pacific islands be treated medically in Australia.• Aboriginal Hunters’ Fires Help Restore an Australian Desert: A study of how the Martu shaped their land presents an example where humans seem to benefit an environment perceived as wilderness.Food and Drink• In Sydney, Sri Lankan Cuisine Gets a Thrilling Update: Lankan Filling Station serves exciting sambols alongside cocktails and natural wine in a crowded room that thrums with energy.• In Tasmania, a Gin Boom Showcasing Native Plants (and Even Sheep Whey): Gin from the south Australian island state is on the rise. In trendy bars throughout Australia, entire pages on menus are devoted to Tasmanian gins.Opinion• Letter From an Australian Jail: An Iranian Kurdish writer, detained for six years on a remote island for seeking asylum in Australia, proves that words are more powerful than fences.• The Alarming Allure of Australia’s Brumbies: The environment is being sacrificed for a national myth.... And in case you missed the link above:• Opinion: Australia’s Burning, Flooding, Disastrous New Normal: We are a land of proudly resilient people. But in an age of climate change, we can’t just hike up our Stubbies and move on.___...And We RecommendEarlier this week in Melbourne, I hosted a discussion with Paul Krugman, the veteran New York Times columnist and Nobel-prize-winning economist.We talked about trade and politics, of course, but at dinner the night before, Paul also told me that late in life, he’d become an indie rock fanatic.So here are a few recommendations from Paul, not for how to prevent recession, but rather for what to listen to when you’re worried about the world.• Wolf Alice• Warpaint• The Lone BellowDamien Cave is the Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. He’s covered more than a dozen countries for The Times, including Mexico, Cuba, Iraq and Lebanon. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Patricia MazzeiMIAMI — President Trump, speaking to the Venezuelan community in Miami on Monday, put an overtly political gloss on his administration’s push for Venezuela’s leftist president to step aside, casting that country’s turmoil as a cautionary tale for those who would embrace socialism.“Socialism has so completely ravaged this great country that even the world’s largest reserves of oil are no longer enough to keep the lights on,” Mr. Trump said. “This will never happen to us.”Mr. Trump used the speech to send yet another warning to President Nicolás Maduro that his days were numbered.But in South Florida, home to the largest population of Venezuelans in the country, his remarks were also seen as a bid to win over what may be a critical bloc of voters in the 2020 presidential race.The speech was also squarely in keeping with the president’s recent adoption of “socialist” as an all-purpose epithet for his newly empowered Democratic adversaries in the House.Many Democratic lawmakers in South Florida have also called for Mr. Maduro’s ouster. But the White House has repeatedly opted not to invite Democrats to official events on Venezuela. And in his speech on Monday, Mr. Trump went out of his way to praise a slew of Republican officials.To Democrats, all that suggests that the president may be more interested in wooing Venezuelan-Americans and other Latino voters than in promoting bipartisanship on the Maduro issue.“I’m concerned about the Trump administration politicizing this issue, using Venezuelans’ suffering to score political points here in Florida,” said Representative Debbie Mucarsel-Powell, Democrat of Miami. “We shouldn’t be using this as a political weapon.”Florida is a swing state in which elections are often won or lost by tiny margins, and Trump campaign officials see a golden opportunity. If they succeed in driving Mr. Maduro from office, they believe, they may turn Venezuelan-Americans into Republican voters, much like Cuban-Americans before them. Until now, Venezuelans have been seen as leaning Democratic.The most emotional moment of the speech Monday came when Mr. Trump invited to the stage the mother of a rebel police officer who was killed by government forces in Venezuela last year.“I apologize if I start crying,” Aminta Pérez said in Spanish as she took the microphone, pledging to continue her son’s work until “we see a free Venezuela.”“¡Justicia!” the crowd chanted.A president often associated with a wall on the Southern border seemed happy to welcome the Spanish speaker standing next to him.“I don’t know what she said — but I think I know what she said,” Mr. Trump said, vowing that Ms. Pérez’s son, Óscar Pérez, did not die in vain.The president appeared to bask in the boisterous reception he got from about 1,000 people waving American, Venezuelan and Nicaraguan flags.“I am thrilled to be back in the state I love with so many proud, freedom-loving patriots,” he said.The political overtones were impossible to ignore.Throngs of excited supporters wore red “Make America Great Again” hats. Loudspeakers blared the same songs as in Mr. Trump’s rallies. And a stream of speakers before the president used socialism as a campaign-season cudgel.“These Democrats like to call themselves progressive,” said Senator Rick Scott, a Florida Republican. “They’re regressive.”In the United States, as the Democratic Party moves left, putting forward ambitious climate change proposals like the Green New Deal, Mr. Trump has branded party members as socialists.He has employed similar language against Mr. Maduro.“We condemn the brutality of the Maduro regime, whose socialist policies have turned that nation from being the wealthiest in South America into a state of abject poverty and despair,” the president said in his State of the Union address this month.But what might serve the president’s political goals in the United States might backfire when it comes to foreign policy. At least before the speech in Miami, some administration officials said they were concerned that politicizing the issue at home might actually prop up Mr. Maduro in Venezuela, where he is unpopular even among supporters of Hugo Chávez, the former Venezuelan president who founded the country’s socialist party.And the Venezuelan opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, is hardly a right-wing figure, backing social policies that would likely be considered left of center in the United States.“The politics are not left and right,” said Eric Farnsworth, vice president of the Americas Society and Council of the Americas in Washington. “I don’t consider Maduro a leftist. I consider him an authoritarian. This is more about Florida politics.”Mr. Trump was in Florida for Presidents’ Day weekend, and the speech at Florida International University marked a rare disruption of his familiar routine in Palm Beach, where he had spent the past two days shuttling between his private club, Mar-a-Lago, and the Trump International Golf Club.On Monday morning, Mr. Trump appeared more preoccupied with the Justice Department than with the crisis in Venezuela. He fired off five early morning tweets, calling reported discussions there about using the 25th Amendment to remove him from power “illegal and treasonous.”Over the weekend, Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, made a surprise visit to the Colombian border city Cúcuta and played down the possibility of an invasion. But in his speech, the president appeared to offer veiled threats.Mr. Trump said, “We seek a peaceful transition of power, but all options are open.”Mr. Rubio sounded a more pacific tone in Colombia.“The only invasion that people have talked about around me is an invasion of food and medicine,” he said.The senator also played down any link between the Venezuelan crisis and the political map at home.Anatoly Kurmanaev contributed reporting from Cúcuta, Colombia.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanLOS ANGELES — After working through the Las Vegas summer lugging boxes and heavy furniture to raise money to apply for United States citizenship, Jose Silva plunked down the $725 fee in the fall of 2017, just days after he turned 18. “I hoped to vote in the midterm elections,” he said.But it took until last week, more than a year and a half after he applied, for the college student to be scheduled for a citizenship interview, which he will have on March 20. If approved, Mr. Silva will take the oath later this year.The time that aspiring Americans must wait to be naturalized is now almost twice as long, 10 months, as it was two years ago. In Las Vegas, where the office has a particularly large backlog, applicants could wait 31 months.The delays come as the Trump administration tightens scrutiny of applications, diverts staff from reviewing them and introduces proposals likely to make it more difficult, and cumbersome, for green-card holders to qualify and complete the process.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up for it here.]Nearly nine million immigrants are eligible for citizenship. The steep application fee and the civics and English tests have historically deterred many from naturalizing. Instead, they renewed their legal residence every decade.But the administration’s move to tighten restrictions on immigration have awakened many longtime permanent residents to the fact that a green card does not shield them from deportation. It has also compelled many to seek citizenship in order to cast a ballot, with hundreds of thousands of immigrants poised to become potential voters ahead of the 2020 election.After supporting legislation that would cut overall immigration, President Trump recently championed the economic benefits of attracting foreign talent. In his State of the Union address, the president said he wanted “people to come into our country in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally.”Yet the lengthening backlog in applications is making it more difficult for immigrants to become civically engaged and to solidify ties to their adopted country, critics of the administration’s policies say. “Far from the public eye, the Trump administration is strangling the naturalization process,” said Steven Choi, a chair of the National Partnership for New Americans, a coalition of advocacy groups that is pushing to offer naturalization workshops and legal services to would-be citizens.Coalition members filed a federal lawsuit in Los Angeles in September against the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that reviews the applications, challenging the processing delays.The federal agency has blamed the delays on a sharp rise in applications.“U.S.C.I.S. continues to adjudicate the pending naturalization caseload, which skyrocketed under the Obama administration, more than doubling from 291,800 in September 2010 to nearly 700,000 by the beginning of 2017. Now, despite a record and unprecedented application surge workload, U.S.C.I.S. is completing more citizenship applications, more efficiently and effectively — outperforming itself,” Michael Bars, an agency spokesman, said in response to emailed questions.There have been bigger application spikes in the past, such as in 2007, when the caseload swelled to 1.4 million and the agency was able to work through the backlog by the following year. That has not happened with the current pileup.A total of 750,793 applications were pending at the end of June, the latest period available. But the rate at which they are being processed is at the lowest in a decade, according to an analysis released this month by Boundless Immigration, a technology company in Seattle that helps immigrants obtain green cards and citizenship. The agency was able to work through only about half its applications in 2017, compared to about 60 percent in 2016. (Data for 2018 is not available.)“Applications for citizenship have surged many times in the past and U.S.C.I.S. was able to bring enough resources to bear to tame them. Wait times have doubled and the agency is barely processing half of their backlog,” said Doug Rand, a founder of Boundless Immigration.[Would your marriage stand up to the scrutiny of the American government? Take the test.]A Feb. 12 letter to the director of Citizenship and Immigration Services that was signed by 86 members of Congress raised concerns about the “alarming growth in processing delays” for naturalization and other services like green cards and visas.It noted that the agency’s proposed budget for the 2019 fiscal year included a request that more than $200 million of its fee revenue be transferred to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that rounds up people for deportation.“This appears to represent part of U.S.C.I.S.’s larger shift toward prioritizing immigration enforcement over the service-oriented adjudications at the core of the agency’s mandate,” said the letter, which sought details about efforts to reduce and eliminate backlogs.Processing times vary across the country, depending on caseloads and staffing at regional offices. Applicants in Houston could wait almost two years; in Atlanta, the wait could be even longer. In contrast, those seeking citizenship in Louisville, Ky., have been completing the process in up to 10 months. In Buffalo, the wait is just over a year.Citizenship applications are receiving additional scrutiny — and that is likely to intensify. The Trump administration says that it is placing a premium on integrity. But immigration lawyers and other experts report that officers are digging up information going back years to raise questions that are delaying, and jeopardizing, citizenship for many applicants.“The Trump administration has infused the entire legal immigration system with skepticism, but naturalization should be different: These people are already here legally; they want to be citizens to better assimilate,” said Mr. Rand, who served in the Obama administration.The government has also been taking a harder look at some immigrants who have already become citizens. Last year, the agency launched a denaturalization task force with the aim of stripping citizenship from people found to have committed fraud to obtain it.Some applicants have shown up for their interview only to learn they could be deported.“This past year, for the first time we have started to see people who apply for naturalization not only have it denied but also be placed in removal proceedings to take away their permanent residence,” said Ted Farrell, an immigration lawyer in Louisville.Ahmed Bafagih, 31, a permanent resident since 2010, was denied citizenship after he told an officer during his interview last month in Houston that he was born in Kenya, not Yemen, as appeared in his file. He is appealing the decision.“Acting in good faith, I tried to correct the error that would have gone unnoticed,” said the lab technician, who moved to Sana from Mombasa, his birthplace, when he was about 30 days old.The denial, reviewed by The New York Times, stated that, “Your record reflects that there was fraud in procurement of your Legal Permanent Resident status,” referring to the erroneous birth certificate.Mr. Bafagih’s Yemen-born parents and three sisters are American citizens.His father, Jamal Bafagih, who won awards during 25 years of service with American government missions in the Middle East, including with the Pentagon and the Commerce Department, said: “I raised my kids to love this country. Suddenly when my son reports an error, it bounces back to hurt him; that leaves a very bad taste.”Slated for implementation are a series of regulatory changes that are likely to make the process even more onerous.One proposal would require many citizenship applicants to produce a decade of international travel history, rather than the current five; more documentation, like children’s birth certificates, which many refugees lack; as well as more information to ascertain “good moral character.”The agency has also proposed narrowing the eligibility criteria for a waiver of the full $725 filing fee, which would reduce the number of low-income immigrants who could afford to naturalize.Meanwhile, many agency officers who conduct citizenship interviews have been reassigned to the southern border to interview asylum seekers, whose cases the administration wishes to expedite, according to an agency official who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to speak to the media.For many of those waiting their turn, more is at stake than the simple pride of citizenship. Holding an American passport opens access to certain jobs, such as in law-enforcement agencies, and scholarships that are not available to noncitizens. Mr. Silva the applicant in Las Vegas, is studying Arabic, a language in high demand by government agencies, which often only hire citizens.He’s studying at a community college, but hopes to transfer to a four-year university next year — and that’s another issue.“My passion is languages,” said Mr. Silva, “and for scholarships I have found, you have to be a U.S. citizen.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackThe number of hate groups in the United States rose for the fourth year in a row in 2018, pushed to a record high by a toxic combination of political polarization, anti-immigrant sentiment and technologies that help spread propaganda online, the Southern Poverty Law Center said Wednesday.The law center said the number of hate groups rose by 7 percent last year to 1,020, a 30 percent jump from 2014. That broadly echoes other worrying developments, including a 30 percent increase in the number of hate crimes reported to the F.B.I. from 2015 through 2017 and a surge of right-wing violence that the Anti-Defamation League said had killed at least 50 people in 2018.“We’re seeing a lot of bad trends,” Heidi Beirich, the director of the intelligence project at the Southern Poverty Law Center, said in an interview on Wednesday. “There are more hate groups, more hate crimes and more domestic terrorism in that same vein. It is a troubling set of circumstances.”Ms. Beirich said the increase in extremist activity tracked by her team began in earnest in the early days of the 2016 presidential election, when anxieties over immigration helped propel President Trump to the White House. Before that, she said, the number of hate groups had fallen for three straight years.“Trump has made people in the white supremacist movement move back into politics and the public domain,” Ms. Beirich said. “He is a critical aspect of this dynamic, but he is not the only reason why the ranks of hate groups are growing. The ability to propagate hate in the online space is key.”The center said in a statement that most hate groups in the United States espoused some form of white supremacist ideology, including neo-Nazis, the Ku Klux Klan, neo-Confederates and white nationalists. It said the number of white nationalist groups jumped by almost 50 percent, to 148 in 2018 from 100.For the purposes of its study, the center said it considered any organization whose leaders, activities or statement of principles attacks an entire class of people to be a hate group. Violence is not a prerequisite.The center’s findings run parallel to a report on extremist-related killings in the United States that was issued last month by the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism.That report said that right-wing extremism was linked to every extremist-related killing the group tracked in 2018, at least 50, and that jihadist groups were linked to none. It said that made 2018 the deadliest year for right-wing extremism since the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing.The law center and the Anti-Defamation League both pointed to the killing of 11 people at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh in October as a symptom of the increasingly combustible mix of anti-immigrant sentiment, violence and online conspiracy-mongering.“The white supremacist attack in Pittsburgh should serve as a wake-up call to everyone about the deadly consequences of hateful rhetoric,” Jonathan A. Greenblatt, the president of the Anti-Defamation League, said in a statement accompanying its report. “It’s time for our nation’s leaders to appropriately recognize the severity of the threat and to devote the necessary resources to address the scourge of right-wing extremism.”But the rise in anti-immigrant sentiment had also created “an equal yet opposite reaction,” the Southern Poverty Law Center said. As the number of white supremacist groups rose, so did the number of radical black nationalist groups that espoused anti-white, anti-Semitic or anti-gay and anti-transgender views.The center said the number of those groups had risen to 264 in 2018 from 233 in 2017, but it noted that the influence of black nationalism in mainstream politics was highly limited.It did, however, point specifically to comments by the Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, who the center said echoed white supremacist myths of a looming white genocide in his rhetoric about President Trump, whom he has accused of “planning genocide” against African-Americans.Mr. Farrakhan and the Nation of Islam have been connected to a continuing controversy surrounding the anti-Trump Women’s March organization, two of whose national leaders have been accused of sympathizing with Mr. Farrakhan and privately expressing anti-Semitic opinions.The Southern Poverty Law Center, which is based in Montgomery, Ala., has tracked domestic extremism since 1971, but in recent years conservatives have accused it of politicizing its findings and falsely labeling right-leaning organizations as hate groups.The group paid $3.4 million to Maajid Nawaz, a British campaigner against Islamic extremism who sometimes works with conservative anti-Muslim politicians, after it included him on a list of anti-Muslim extremists in 2016. Richard Cohen, the center’s president, said in a public apology that the inclusion of Mr. Nawaz on the list had been “wrong.”Advertisement“My situation is important ’cause I represent poor black Americans and I represent poor immigrant Americans,” the rapper said.In one of his first interviews after being released by Immigrations and Customs Enforcement for overstaying his visa, the rapper 21 Savage talks about his early days in the United States and his time in detention.CreditCreditDiwang Valdez for The New York TimesSupported byBy Jon CaramanicaALPHARETTA, Ga. — For the last four years, 21 Savage has been one of the stalwarts of Atlanta rap, a rising star who has collaborated with Drake and Cardi B, among many others, and become one of the signature voices in the city. His December album “I Am > I Was” spent two weeks at the top of the Billboard chart, and his collaboration with Post Malone, “Rockstar,” was nominated for two Grammys.With that success has come more visibility. In late January, he performed his single “A Lot” on “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon,” adding a new verse in which he rapped about children being separated from their parents at the border.A few days later, early in the morning on Super Bowl Sunday, Feb. 3, 21 Savage (born She’yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph) was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, who said he was an “unlawfully present United Kingdom national” who had overstayed his visa.He remained in ICE custody at the Irwin County Detention Center in South Georgia until Feb. 13, when he was released on $100,000 bond. The next day, he was in a hotel room in a suburb north of Atlanta, surrounded by several members of his legal team. Dressed in somber all-black, he spoke at length about his childhood, his time in detention, the Grammy Awards ceremony he missed and how growing up without legal status shaped the person he became. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.Do you remember first arriving here when you were young?Yeah, everything was like, bigger. I come from the poor side of London. My grandma house is real skinny. So when we first moved here, we was living in the hood still, but it was, like, way bigger. The toilet size, the bathroom size, it was just different. But I fell in love with it. It’s all I know.Did you have a British accent?Yeah, I had a accent, ’cause my first day of school they was making fun of me so I beat somebody up, and they was calling me “taekwondo kid.” My mama whupped me, she made me stay in the house. So I know I had a accent, but I been here 20 years — I don’t know what happened to it.Do you remember when you became aware that your status wasn’t settled?Probably like the age when you start to get your driver’s license. I couldn’t never take driver’s ed, I couldn’t never go get a job. About that age.Was it something you wanted to get taken care of?It felt impossible. It got to the point where I just learned to live without it. ’Cause I still ain’t got it, I’m 26, and I’m rich. So, just learned to live without it.Like a lot of other immigrants.We struggled but we couldn’t get food stamps, we couldn’t get government assistance. I learned how to live without. You know in school, when you get to a certain age, your clothes make you popular? I learned how to be popular without that. People respected me just for me.Do you think the situation taught you to carry yourself a certain way?It made me who I am. I wouldn’t write it no other way if I had the choice. If they said, “Hey, you could start your life over and make yourself a citizen,” I wouldn’t have never did it. I still want to go through this right here ’cause it made me who I am, it made me strong.Were you aware that there was a possibility that at some point you might not be able to stay in the country?Yeah, for sure. It’s like my worst nightmare. That’s why it’s always been trying to get corrected. Even if you got money, it ain’t easy. It ain’t no favoritism, and I respect it, I honestly respect it. It would be kind of messed up if they treated rich immigrants better than poor immigrants, I think.How draining was it being in detention, especially with the uncertainty of how long it was going to last?It really wasn’t jail, it was the possibility of me not being able to live in this country no more that I’ve been living in my whole life. All that just going through your head, like, “Damn, I love my house, I ain’t gonna be able to go in my house no more? I ain’t gonna be able to go to my favorite restaurant that I been going to for 20 years straight?” That’s the most important thing. If you tell me, “I’ll give you 20 million to go stay somewhere you ain’t never stayed,” I’d rather be broke. I’ll sit in jail to fight to live where I’ve been living my whole life.I’m sure you were spending a lot of time in your head.I could have made myself go crazy. I think they really try to break you. It’s like we gonna put you in jail and we gonna make you fight your case the slowest you can fight it so that you just want to go home. Nobody want to sit in jail, especially if they don’t have the money to fight it and they ain’t been to court in three months.What do you think has happened in your life that gave you a different perspective?It was what was at stake. It’s like, I got three kids, my mama, everything that I know is here in Atlanta. I’m not leaving Atlanta without a fight. We gon’ fight all the way till the last day even if that mean I sit in jail for 10 years.Were you upset about missing the Grammys?Nah, I was stressed about getting out. The Grammys is the Grammys, but when you in jail, the Grammys is nothing. I got to watch it. By that time they had put a TV in my room.Was the original plan that you’d be part of the Post Malone performance?Yeah I was supposed to perform. He wore the 21 Savage shirt, so I felt like I was there. I don’t care what nobody say — everybody in that building who’s connected to this culture, I was on their mind in some type of way. That’s all that mattered. They didn’t have to say it ’cause everybody knew it. It was in the air. All the people that was there, they said the words in other places and that matter just as much. All the big artists was vocal about the situation, so I was appreciative. Even the memes.They didn’t stress you out?Some of them was funny — I ain’t gonna lie. I was appreciative of that. I coulda been another person who just, “He locked up? Damn,” and nobody said nothing. Some people, I see why they was mad. It ain’t about the meme, it’s about the bigger picture. But I done been through way worse things in my life than somebody putting me on a meme. I been shot — what is a meme? A meme is nothing. That’s something on the internet that I can do like this [turns over phone] and never see again. I look at bullet scars every day, so it’s like, a meme, bro?Do you feel a responsibility to speak up about your circumstances?Yeah, I feel a responsibility. My situation is important ’cause I represent poor black Americans and I represent poor immigrant Americans. You gotta think about all the millions of people that ain’t 21 Savage that’s in 21 Savage shoes.Do you feel an urge to put some of this experience into music?Not right now, ’cause I feel like me putting it into music got me in this situation, kind of.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam NossiterPARIS — He was one of France’s few public intellectuals to express support for the Yellow Vest movement at the beginning, but last week he said the protesters “devastate without regard for anything or anybody.”Over the weekend, they turned their ire on him.As Alain Finkielkraut, one of France’s leading essayists and critics from the right, walked by a Yellow Vest demonstration, protesters at its edge shouted insults widely condemned as anti-Semitic.“Fascist!” they yelled.“Palestine!” “Go home to Israel!” “Tel Aviv, back to Tel Aviv!”By Monday, the affair had snowballed into another episode of anguished national soul-searching over the problem of persistent anti-Semitism in France, and the evolution of the Yellow Vest movement from gas-tax protest to violent street revolt with hints of menace and hooliganism.Some politicians and intellectuals accused others of not condemning the insults to Mr. Finkielkraut firmly enough. President Emmanuel Macron telephoned him to express his anger, but said he would not be attending a march in Paris scheduled for Tuesday to condemn anti-Semitism.The march, the accusations and counteraccusations, and the insults themselves are a recurring feature of public life in France, where the Interior Ministry last week reported a 74-percent rise in anti-Semitic incidents nationally.The extreme sensitivity of the issue was evident again Monday in the recriminations that poured down on those whose condemnation was judged not severe enough. A lawyer with connections to Mr. Macron was forced to apologize for seeming to take the epithets too lightly in a television interview.The affair crystallizes a number of dark elements bubbling to the surface in a climate of public tension in France, even beyond the Yellow Vest protests, now in their 14th week, whose economic resentments sometimes elide with anti-Semitism.Mr. Finkielkraut, the son of an Auschwitz survivor and a member of the Académie Française, one of the country’s oldest cultural institutions, is a polarizing figure. His views on politics and France’s immigrants put him well to the right in the country’s political spectrum.Apart from displaying his erudition as a critic deeply knowledgeable about French literature and philosophy, Mr. Finkielkraut regularly inveighs, on a popular weekly radio program, against what he considers the lack of respect for traditional French culture in France’s immigrant communities. He has lamented the incursion of these communities into hitherto all-French zones, and often speaks out about the anti-Semitism in France’s Muslim suburbs.Some of the virulence directed at him Saturday could perhaps be explained by these positions, though analysts said there was no doubt that anti-Semitism also played a role. The Yellow Vest movement has been criticized for its lack of diversity and for not raising the problems of longstanding poverty in France’s heavily immigrant suburbs, or banlieues.The movement has been fueled by economic and class resentments, particularly over elitism and inequality, and mostly among white working-class French in small towns and rural areas.Muttering about the “Rothschild bank” can frequently be heard at the edges of the demonstrations, mixed in with expressions of hatred toward the president.Mr. Macron was a banker at Rothschild and Company. But the invocation of Rothschild has also become a kind of anti-Semitic code for the supposed influence of Jews over the economy.Mr. Finkielkraut was in the cross hairs of several of these currents on Saturday, as he stepped out to take his mother-in-law home from lunch and crossed the now-weekly Yellow Vest demonstration near his home on the Left Bank.Citizen videos, which have run continually on French television, make clear what happened next: Several in the crowd, recognizing Mr. Finkielkraut from his frequent television appearances, began yelling insults.One man was particularly virulent: Tugging at a sort of kaffiyeh scarf, he yelled: “France belongs to us! Damn racist! You are a hatemonger. You are going to die. You are going to hell. God will punish you. The people will punish you. Damn Zionist!”The intentions of some in the crowd were clear, Mr. Finkielkraut said. “I think some of them wanted to beat the hell out of me,” he told the television station LCI.“There was a pogrom-like violence about it,” Mr. Finkielkraut said, though he noted that “one of them accompanied me so that I would escape from my aggressors.” The ones who wanted to harm him had “faces full of hatred,” he said.Mr. Macron, writing on Twitter, said, “The anti-Semitic insults he was subjected to are the absolute negation of what we are and what makes us of a great nation.”The Paris prosecutor’s office said it was opening a criminal investigation into “public insults attributable to origin, ethnicity, nationality, race or religion.” France’s interior minister said Mr. Finkielkraut’s principal antagonist had been identified by the authorities.The barrage aimed at Mr. Finkielkraut combined elements of traditional French anti-Semitism, deeply rooted in the writing and thinking of many of the country’s greatest writers, and the so-called new anti-Semitism of the country’s Muslim suburbs.“It’s a mix of the two,” said Laurent Joly, one of France’s leading historians of anti-Semitism and the author of numerous books on the subject. “It’s quite striking, and it’s the first time.”“It’s a kind of hybrid phenomenon, a sort of intellectual confusion,” he said.The insults combined anti-Semitism, hatred of elites and anger at Republican institutions. That made for a close parallel with the political anti-Semitism of the late 19th century, in Mr. Joly’s view.“It’s a hatred of the elites that are in place,” the historian said. “Before, Jews were accused of being the winners in the Republic. It’s a little bit now what were hearing, with all this talk against the Rothschilds.’’AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOur policymakers have been at an impasse. Can you do better?Immigration has continued to be a fractious issue in American political life, as well as a major source of impasse in our government. We want to hear from readers on all sides of the discussion, especially those who feel they’ll be directly affected by America’s immigration policy. Are you an immigrant yourself, documented or otherwise? Do you live in a community that has experienced high levels of immigration over the past few decades? Have you considered moving to America? We’re looking to set up correspondence among readers for what we hope will be the first in a series of thoughtful conversations on a variety of issues facing the country. We welcome and encourage all voices and points of view, so long as they include an openness to respectfully discussing the issue with others.Your information will not be shared without your permission. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement

      By LAUREN HILGERS

FEB. 21, 2019

Nannies and housecleaners have some of the hardest, least secure jobs in the nation. Now they’re organizing to change that.
Nannies and housecleaners have some of the hardest, least secure jobs in the nation. Now they’re organizing to change that.By LAUREN HILGERSOn a beautiful April day in 2002, a woman named Ai-jen Poo walked into the River Run Playground on New York’s Upper West Side, where a cluster of Caribbean women had gathered, tending to children who were not their own. Kids ran chattering up the play structures, following the trail of a concrete stream that runs the length of the playground. A woman named Allison Julien pulled her eyes off the little girl she was caring for and watched as Poo walked toward her, pulling fliers out of her bag as she approached. Poo was there, she explained, to talk to the women about their rights. Julien, an immigrant from Barbados and third-generation domestic worker, was ready to listen.“Here was this Asian lady talking to a bunch of Caribbean folk about domestic-worker organizing?” Julien recalled. She stood at Poo’s shoulder and thought to herself: Who are you? A unicorn?Poo is a lifelong activist with straight hair and a wide, calm face. She was in her late 20s when she first met Julien, already with a voice so steady it could talk down a thunderstorm. She spoke about the meetings her organization was holding. Julien was undocumented and afraid, but she knew she was interested — she had long been frustrated with the hours she worked, the lack of respect she felt and the stories of exploitation she heard from other nannies on the playground. Poo wrote down detailed directions on the back of a flier, in red ink, telling her which trains to take, where to walk and what door to use. Julien went home that night and started worrying about her outfit. “It was a meeting, and I didn’t know how dressed up to get,” she said. “Caribbean people, we love to get all dressy and fancy.”[From the 1970s into the 1990s, women made huge advancements in corporate America. Then that progress stalled. Why? Find out in our Future of Work Issue.] The next week, when the meeting was scheduled, Julien resisted the impulse to overdress and showed up in sneakers. She opened the doors, walked into the meeting and thought: These women are just like me. Julien had spent years convinced that she should never refuse an employer’s request — that the insecurity of her job was a direct result of her personal situation. “As an immigrant, when you arrive, someone in your community introduces you to the work,” she explained. “They are the ones who tell you how much your wages should be; what hours you’re supposed to work; to never say no to an employer.” She rolled her eyes. “Well, that didn’t last long for me.”What Julien had walked into was a citywide movement on the cusp of going national. Poo was then the head of New York’s Domestic Workers United; in a few years, she and Julien would both become founding members of the National Domestic Workers Alliance, a network of activist groups across the country. Formed in 2007, the N.D.W.A. has won state legislative victories, started membership services and created a political advocacy arm. Today it includes four local chapters and 63 affiliate organizations in 38 different cities and towns.The women the N.D.W.A. represents are diverse and scattered. There are more than two million domestic workers in the United States, most women of color and immigrants. They are housecleaners, nannies and health aides working in private homes, a majority making less than $13 an hour. It’s a work force that is extremely heterogeneous, largely invisible and subject to abuses that range from wage theft to sexual assault and outright human trafficking. (Poo has organized more than a handful of midnight escapes.)The diversity of backgrounds and needs among its members is something that the N.D.W.A. seeks to simultaneously honor and overcome. Poo, who has been the director of the N.D.W.A. since 2009, aims to create a community based on shared experiences that does not diminish the challenges that are specific to, say, an African-American worker in Atlanta or a recent immigrant in Seattle. Domestic workers have some of the hardest, least secure jobs in the nation, and Poo wants to make them good jobs — with living wages, benefits, days off and legal protections. A good job, she says, has a safety net. A good job does not end without warning or leave women rationing medication they can’t afford.Poo is pursuing legislation that builds a floor of basic legal protections for domestic workers — a place from which workers and organizers can begin to advocate. The N.D.W.A. is trying to create a new kind of collective bargaining, one where domestic workers have standard contracts and a place to take their complaints. They have built a benefits platform tailored to workers who move from job to job and a political organization promoting candidates who support their causes. They are fighting for immigrants’ rights and women’s rights. “There isn’t a pre-existing model for organizing these workers — they are creating something new,” says Louis Hyman, a labor historian at Cornell University and author of the book “Temp,” who argues that existing labor and unionization laws have long been insufficient.“We are bringing all the tools and all the creativity we have to do this work,” Poo says. “We are in a moment where we can either shape the future and be part of how this whole thing unfolds, or we can be victims of it, the way that we have been for generations.”When Poo thinks about what is happening to labor in the United States today, her closest comparison is the transformation that took place during the Industrial Revolution. In the agricultural economy, people largely worked for themselves, or in small groups. With the rise of factories, work was aggregated and made more efficient. In the upheaval that followed, laborers lost out, so they organized and went on strike. In 1935, the National Labor Relations Act was passed, but domestic workers and farmworkers, conspicuously, were left out.“The first professional domestic workers in this country were enslaved black women,” Poo says. The nation’s labor laws were, from the outset, tied to Jim Crow. And with no minimum wage and no ability to bargain — really no legal protections at all — a work force that was at the time largely made up of African-American women was driven even further into the shadows. In Poo’s view, the problems that face domestic workers today are steeped in this history of exclusion, sexism and racism.Poo was born in the United States to Taiwanese immigrant parents. She spent her life slipping in and out of new geographies and new contexts. Poo was raised, in part, by her grandmothers in Taiwan. She spent a year of her life there as a baby and then returned to the United States, first to Indiana, where her father was a student, and then to Irvine, Calif. After that, her family took her to New Haven, Conn., where a teacher criticized her “California surfer girl” attitude (“I can barely swim!” Poo told me). Through all of this, Poo was cared for by a community of immigrants and students, women she called “aunties,” who gave her mother the space to raise two children while getting a medical degree and a Ph.D. in chemistry.Before graduating from Columbia in 1996, Poo started volunteering with CAAAV, an organization serving the Asian community in New York. (The initials originally stood for Committee Against Anti-Asian Violence, but now the group uses the acronym only.) It was there that she first started to understand the difficulties that domestic workers faced. CAAAV had begun an effort to reach immigrant women in all kinds of service industries — nail-salon workers, massage-parlor workers, restaurant workers and domestic workers. At the meetings they organized — the health fairs in particular — it was domestic workers who kept showing up. “As soon as you started interacting in the immigrant community, you started seeing domestic workers,” she said. “We were just starting to see the abuses facing domestic workers. And once you started to see it, you couldn’t not see it.”Poo’s work changed accordingly. Soon she was meeting regularly with a group of Filipina domestic workers, many of whom who had come to the United States after laboring in Hong Kong. “One of the first questions the women started asking me was, ‘Why don’t we have a standard contract?’ ” Poo says. “They were asking: ‘What are the guidelines? What are the rules here?’ And then we would very quickly learn that there were very little protections in place.”By the time Allison Julien joined the group, Poo had every playground in New York City mapped in her head. She had started this circuit in 1998 and spent hours walking the city every week. She visited playgrounds and commuter railway stops; she was kicked out of the kids’ sections at Barnes & Noble more times than she could count (“back when there were Barnes & Nobles,” Poo joked). She talked to care workers wherever she found them. She asked them about their lives and invited them to meetings. This is organizing, she told me — walking, calling, passing out fliers, holding meetings and building relationships upon relationships, creating a collective out of what she calls the “crazy, unruly raw ingredients of human beings.”In 2003, Poo’s organization helped pass a citywide law that required nanny and babysitting agencies to inform workers of their rights. But it seemed like a symbolic victory at best. “Even winning that bill there was so little protection under the law, it didn’t really mean much — they didn’t have many rights to know about,” she says. So Poo set her sights on Albany and determined that introducing any new legislation would require input from her members. (“Being grounded in the specificity of what’s happening to people allows us to see the big picture,” she says.) That year, she organized a meeting of more than 200 domestic workers (with simultaneous translation) and asked them what protections they needed. Out of those meetings she developed what would eventually become the linchpin of the entire movement: the Domestic Workers’ Bill of Rights. What they were asking for constituted a bare minimum of overtime pay, one day off a week, three paid vacation days a year and protection under New York’s Human Rights Law.Still, it took domestic workers six years to get the legislation passed in 2010. Poo spent years organizing vans and buses from New York City, at least once a month when the Legislature was in session. She and her colleagues found that they had to constantly remind legislators what they were talking about — yanking domestic workers out of invisibility. “I ended up telling people: ‘Every time you say no, it’s just an invitation for me to come back,’ ” Julien told me about lobbying legislators. “So if they didn’t want to see me back there in their office, they better start saying yes!”While Poo was organizing in New York City, other organizations across the nation were working with nannies and caregivers in their cities. (One group in Los Angeles was printing a cartoon called “Super Doméstica” and passing it out along bus lines.) Poo started reaching out to them to discuss the challenges she faced. “Organizing is really hard,” she said. “We were all struggling with these big questions that were really fundamental and thinking: There’s got to be somebody who knows the answer to these questions.” In 2007, a group of around 50 domestic workers and organizers from six different cities came together in Atlanta for the U.S. Social Forum, a gathering of social-justice activists. “We met together and decided right then and there, on our first date, to get married,” Poo said. They formed the N.D.W.A. in the hope they could work together, build capacity and concentrate power.Poo is not the first woman to take the lead in organizing domestic workers in the United States. Chief among her predecessors is Dorothy Lee Bolden, an Atlanta domestic worker who helped nannies and maids win inclusion in minimum-wage and unemployment laws during the 1950s and ’60s. Despite the successes of Bolden’s movement, the working conditions for nannies and cleaners have continued largely unchanged across the nation. Today, however, Poo believes that the economic and demographic changes taking place in the United States will make domestic workers and their jobs increasingly important, and the problems they face more difficult to ignore. “Today, when I look around, the conditions that define domestic work — the unpredictability of hours, lack of job security, lack of access to benefits, and a safety net — this vulnerability has become defining of more and more of the American work force,” she says.[Read the Times’s obituary for Dorothy Bolden, who helped start the National Domestic Workers Union of America in 1968.] By 2030, Poo says, care workers — nannies and health aides together — will be the biggest work force in the U.S. Some scholars are predicting that, by then, the nation’s demand for domestic work will have grown so quickly that it will face a shortfall of nearly four million paid and unpaid caregivers. If we continue to neglect the women doing these jobs, Poo argues, we will struggle to find quality care for our aging parents and grandparents and our children.At its inception, the N.D.W.A. was run entirely by volunteers, but by 2009 it had grown, and founders asked Poo to become the director of the organization. She approached her national role in much the same way she had organized in New York — working first to develop a full picture of the work force she was representing. In 2012, the N.D.W.A. commissioned a nationwide survey of domestic workers. “I think what snapped into awareness really quickly was that this work force, and these people that had been on the margins for so long, was suddenly on the forefront of so much change in our society and our economy,” Poo says.Poo began paying close attention to the diversity of domestic laborers — their different experiences and demands. It was clear, she said, that her organization would have to be at once extremely specific and expansive. “It was really important to us to take on the issues that domestic workers care about,” said Alicia Garza, a founder of Black Lives Matter Global Network and current strategy director at the N.D.W.A. “That includes things like criminal-justice reform. One in two black women have relatives who are incarcerated — not being able to make a fair wage may impact your ability to support a family member in jail. Having a family member in jail may impact your own ability to make ends meet.”Early on in her work at the N.D.W.A., before the organization started growing at hyperspeed, Poo decided to think strategically about power. She identified five arenas she believed were integral to shaping her movement. There were the practical arenas: economic (building the economic power of their members and extending the way that the N.D.W.A. raised funds), political (legislation and voter outreach) and disruptive (protests). Then there were two categories that Poo feels are equally important but more esoteric: narrative (changing the way we think about and value domestic work) and modeling (creating state programs, technology platforms and collectives that work).Many of the N.D.W.A.’s ventures fall into more than one of these categories, and Poo has been aided by a growing team of leaders. She brought on Garza to help expand their organizing, particularly in communities of black domestic workers in the South. She recruited a social innovation and technology expert named Palak Shah to create an innovation lab, who has facilitated partnerships with Silicon Valley and recently introduced a portable benefits platform called Alia, serving housecleaners. “We’re developing technology commercial markets have not yet solved for,” Shah told me.In the meantime, seven other states have adopted domestic workers’ rights legislation, while a federal version is being prepared by Representative Pramila Jayapal and Senator Kamala Harris. The N.D.W.A. has launched an initiative focusing entirely on home health aides, as well as an immigrant rights organization called Families Belong Together. Mónica Ramírez heads its campaign to promote gender equality. And Poo is continuing to sponsor outreach that will help the N.D.W.A. better understand the domestic-work markets throughout the United States.Last year, Care in Action, a group allied the N.D.W.A., began its first electoral organizing effort overseen by Jess Morales Rocketto, a 32-year-old alumna of the Hillary Clinton campaign and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. “We believe that low-wage women of color should be at the forefront of political leadership,” Morales Rocketto told me. “They should be the ones we listen to about strategy; they should be on TV; they should be the ones running for office.” Here is a constituency who reliably votes for the Democratic Party, Morales Rocketto explained, but their priorities are left off the agenda.During the 2018 election, Care in Action mobilized in Georgia, supporting the Democratic gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams and a list of other candidates, all women of color. Care in Action had 578 paid canvassers, 1,400 volunteers and more than half a million conversations with voters. Its marquee candidate lost, but Morales Rocketto believes the election demonstrated what domestic workers could accomplish. “I think it was proof of concept,” she said. “We wanted to expand the electorate. We would talk to people who would say: ‘You can’t knock those doors. You can’t talk to these voters.’ And we had already done it.” One woman, she remembered, ran out of her house and told volunteers she had been waiting for someone to come.When it came to changing the narrative about domestic work, Poo found that there was no more effective way to spread an alternate portrayal than Hollywood. It was the 2011 movie “The Help” that sparked the idea to partner with filmmakers and movie stars. “Our workers were waiting for the bus and seeing these huge billboards,” Poo said. Her team started handing out fliers at movie theaters that said, “Do you want to know about the real help?” Poo was a guest of Meryl Streep at the 2018 Golden Globes and of the director Alfonso Cuarón this January. During the Oscars this Sunday, stars like Laura Dern and Eva Longoria will help host a ceremony in Los Angeles honoring domestic workers, in conjunction with Cuarón’s film “Roma.” Poo calls this a “cultural moment” in which domestic workers are becoming increasingly visible.Poo’s overarching plan is expansive. People in the N.D.W.A. regularly use the word “experimentation” to describe what they are doing, and the breadth of their new ventures reflect the ambitions of its leader. What Poo is doing requires bringing all of her so-called vectors to bear — the economics, the politics and the protests. It also requires a shift in public consciousness that is close to seismic. Change the way we value the labor of domestic workers, she is telling us, and we can upend our current hierarchy of privilege and power, bringing our economy in line with our values as human beings. This vision is predicated on the idea that employers — most of them, at least — are her allies; that these are people who are simply unaware of the struggles facing the caretakers they hire, who are steeped in the idea that this is unskilled labor and are so overwhelmed by their own lives that they don’t stop to consider how long and unpredictable hours might keep their employees from their own children or partners or parents.And yet even well-intentioned employers may be allies only to a point. The women and men who rely on caretakers to help them pursue their careers — jobs that themselves require eight hours or more a day in an office — might balk at paying overtime rates every day or cutting down on hours. Today, it is estimated that only around 5 percent of domestic workers in the United States are paid on the books. (Home health aides are a different story; most are supported by Medicaid payments, and there simply isn’t enough money in the public system to increase wages and provide the services needed.) Persuading the 95 percent of families who employ nannies to make the jump from under-the-table payments to an aboveboard living wage will require more than a simple narrative adjustment. A publicly funded system is also a difficult sell; in Maine last year, a ballot initiative to provide universal home care was defeated, largely because of a tax increase on those making over $128,000 a year intended to cover the program.Poo admits that her project is ongoing and perhaps interminable. “Organizing and building power for this work force is a never-ending project,” she told me. Then she caught herself: “I mean, hopefully we will win and everything will be great. But this is an ongoing generational journey.”The N.D.W.A. will soon be introducing a new Bill of Rights in California and other places, and the organization is considering trying to replicate a negotiating and enforcement body established last year in Seattle that represents both employers and workers. “It’s an experiment in creating a collective,” said Mariana Viturro, the N.D.W.A.’s deputy director. “We’re thinking: Is there a way for workers to set up standards without launching a whole other legislative campaign?”In New York, Allison Julien is now working out of the N.D.W.A. offices full time. She spent more than 25 years as a nanny, and many as an organizer, and she believes her work conditions improved after she started pushing back. “I started using my voice,” she said. “I believe my employers saw the value in my experience — they saw the lines of my professionalism.” Her dream is that domestic workers will be respected without having to ask for respect. But for now, she is still asking on their behalf.Despite the lengthy struggle that the N.D.W.A. is facing, Poo’s ultimate vision would solve the problems of her workers and fill the needs of a changing society; in an idea she calls Universal Family Care, her moral narrative would fuse with her economic and political goals through the creation of a social insurance fund. Everyone in the U.S. would pay into the fund, which would cover care of all types — child care, elder care, paid family leave and services for people with disabilities. “It would finance our care infrastructure in a way that we could finally make these jobs living-wage jobs with benefits,” she says. “Doesn’t that sound great? It could totally happen!” And then Poo catches herself again. “I mean, it will happen. It’s just a matter of when.”An earlier version of this article misstated the relationship between Care in Action and the National Domestic Workers Alliance. They are allied, but separate organizations. Care in Action is not a group within N.D.W.A.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated aspects of Edith Mendoza’s work history and relationship to N.D.W.A. She cleaned offices for the past two and a half years, not four. And she joined an N.D.W.A. affiliate in 2016, not last year.Lauren Hilgers is a writer based in New York. Her book, “Patriot Number One,” following a Chinese activist and his family who escaped to America, is a finalist for the 2019 PEN/Jacqueline Bograd Weld Award in Biography. Sharif Hamza is a photographer based in Brooklyn. He is currently working on a book, “Young Americans,” about youth gun culture.Feb. 21, 2019Feb. 21, 2019Feb. 21, 2019Feb. 21, 2019Feb. 21, 2019Feb. 21, 2019An earlier version of this article misstated the relationship between Care in Action and the National Domestic Workers Alliance. They are allied, but separate organizations. Care in Action is not a group within N.D.W.A.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated aspects of Edith Mendoza’s work history and relationship to N.D.W.A. She cleaned offices for the past two and a half years, not four. And she joined an N.D.W.A. affiliate in 2016, not last year.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Frances RoblesTwo millionaire fugitives from Ecuador, whose family poured hundreds of thousands of dollars into American political campaigns as they fought to stay in the United States, were arrested last week in Miami by immigration authorities, officials said.Roberto and William Isaías, 74 and 75, were taken on Wednesday to a detention facility where undocumented immigrants are held pending deportation, according to the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.It was not immediately clear what prompted the authorities to make the arrests, but ICE’s statement said the brothers were “unlawfully present” in the United States.The Isaías brothers, bankers vilified in Ecuador for increasing their wealth in the late 1990s just as their bank collapsed — wiping out tens of thousands of customers’ savings — were convicted of embezzlement by a court there in 2012. They were sentenced to prison terms in absentia, having arrived in South Florida almost a decade earlier.The brothers have vehemently denied accusations that they looted their bank, and said that the Ecuadorean government had politicized the case and unfairly seized their assets. They are still battling in the courts to recover their properties at home.Ecuador has estimated that the brothers cost the country $400 million, and has for years sought their extradition. At one point, even the American ambassador in Ecuador lobbied for their prompt return, accusing the men of financing a $2 million bribe to get Ecuador’s attorney general to drop the case.As their criminal case heated up in Ecuador, the cash started flowing  in the United States. The Isaías brothers’ relatives donated tens of thousands dollars to members of the United States Congress, and  $90,000 to help re-elect President Barack Obama.A year after the donation to the Obama campaign, the Department of Justice rejected Ecuador’s extradition request, saying it lacked sufficient proof.The Ecuadorean government later accused Washington of denying its request in exchange for checks. The Obama administration said the donations had nothing to do with its decisions.A renewed request for extradition is pending, said Alvin B. Davis, the Ecuadorean government’s lawyer in Miami. The Department of Justice referred questions to ICE.The Isaías brothers are now expected to appear for a deportation hearing in immigration court, said Nestor J. Yglesias, a spokesman for ICE.Mr. Davis said the government of Ecuador, having won a civil case in Florida against the brothers, is preparing to fight for some $1.3 billion in damages. The arrest left him “gratified,” he said.“They need to be held responsible after all these years,” Mr. Davis said.The Isaías’s lawyer in Ecuador, Jorge Zavala Egas, referred questions about the arrest to a South Florida publicist, Alfredo J. Balsera.Contacted by phone, Mr. Balsera said The New York Times had acted in “bad faith” in previous articles about the Isaías case and declined to comment.In a 2014 interview, Roberto Isaías denied asking for favors in exchange for political donations.“My family has given to about 20 congressmen who fight for human rights and freedom of speech in Latin America,” he said. “That’s legal.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________• Despite multiple reports from his own government that call global warming a threat to national security, President Trump plans to set up a panel to examine the question again. It will include William Happer, a climate denialist who has said that carbon dioxide benefits humanity.• Mr. Trump heightened his attacks on the press this week, praising a libel lawsuit against The Washington Post, calling for “retribution” against NBC over “Saturday Night Live” and issuing his sharpest words yet against The Times, which he called “a true ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!”• On one side, Bernie Sanders promises a single-payer revolution. On the other, Amy Klobuchar and Sherrod Brown are calling for incremental change. Here’s how health care became the first real debate of the 2020 Democratic primary.• Just over 24 hours after announcing his presidential bid, Mr. Sanders had already raised $6 million from more than 225,000 donors.• Wealthy investors are seeking tax breaks by plowing money into so-called opportunity zone funds. The funds are a creation of the 2017 tax law that provides incentives for spending on projects in poor areas.• Siding with a drug offender whose $42,000 car was taken by law enforcement officials, the Supreme Court ruled that the Constitution places limits on the ability of states and localities to seize private property allegedly used to commit crimes, a practice known as civil forfeiture.• The Federal Reserve released minutes of its January meeting, which showed that officials had expressed confidence in the economy but saw enough warning signs to warrant a pause in rate increases.• Mr. Trump met with Chancellor Sebastian Kurz of Austria, who shares his appeal to nationalism and determination to crack down on immigration.• Here’s how a veteran campaign operative in rural North Carolina created an illicit operation to collect absentee ballots and sway a House race for the Republican candidate.• Immigrants applying for American citizenship must wait almost twice as long for their applications to be processed as they did two years ago._____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.AdvertisementWage-theft cases are notoriously hard to prove, and they almost never pay out. But for some of the most marginalized laborers in the city, justice was served.Juan Remigio Licona at the site of J.V. Car Wash, in Inwood, where he used to work.CreditCreditSarah Blesener for The New York TimesSupported byBy Tracy Tullis[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Before J.V. Car Wash closed for good, it was open all the time, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Workers put in 12-hour shifts, sponging, drying, and waxing the cars, cleaning the wheels, and vacuuming the interiors, six or even seven days a week.They worked in frigid and searing weather, were expected to use harsh chemical cleaners without gloves, and endured abuse if they took a few minutes to rest.For all this, the employees were paid about $50 a day, roughly $4 an hour. Complaints about low wages were ignored. “The manager would say, ‘If you want to work, then work,’” Juan Remigio Licona said in Spanish. “‘If you don’t want to work, you can go.’”Two workers, Marcos Díaz and Giovanni Paulino, had logged eight years between them at the carwash when they concluded they did not want to work under those conditions and sought the advice of a lawyer. Both were immigrants from the Dominican Republic who had an imperfect command of English and an imperfect understanding of their rights under U.S. labor law. But in 2011, against long odds, they filed suit against their employer, alleging violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state labor law.The case against J.V. Car Wash (and its sister locations) took some unusual turns, as the carwash owner, José Vázquez, contrived a series of bizarre claims to undermine the workers’ lawsuit. But the really surprising twist to this unlikely story: the carwasheros, as they call themselves, won. By the time the last checks are disbursed this summer, almost eight years after the suit was filed, the 106 workers who eventually signed on as plaintiffs will have received a share of roughly $8.5 million — a spectacular sum for a wage theft case.The average plaintiff award in a wage theft case is less than $6,000, according to Samuel Estreicher, a professor at New York University Law School and director of the school’s Center for Labor and Employment Law. These carwasheros won an average of more than $80,000 per worker.Carwash workers are among the most marginal laborers in New York City’s low-wage economy. Most are foreign-born, according to Carlos Encarnacion, an organizer with New York Communities for Change — often from the Dominican Republic, Central America and West Africa — and some unknowable number are undocumented, which makes them especially vulnerable to exploitation.Both the Attorney General’s office and the Department of Labor have investigated and recovered stolen wages in the carwash industry in recent years, and union organizers have been mobilizing carwash workers. But wage theft remains an endemic problem, and so far, only a few carwashes are unionized.For 15 years Martín Ureña was on the night shift at J.V. Car Wash in Inwood, which was known to the carwasheros as “Broadway.” The work was grueling and sometimes hazardous. The winters were the worst. When he got home at the end of his shift, he would soak in a hot bath. “I was in pain from the cold.”Juan Remigio Licona remembered a day at the Bronx location that he was told to clean out the underground pit where sludge and chemicals collect. “The smell was so strong, I was feeling dizzy,” Mr. Licona said through an interpreter. The manager insisted he finish the job.“You come from a poor country, you have dreams,” said Aldo Sención, who was born in the Dominican Republic. “But you never think that this reality could hit you so hard.”José Vázquez came to the United States from Cuba at age 12. He didn’t finish high school, but he saved his money and with his father bought a gas station in Inwood in the 1986, which became J.V. Car Wash (though it was known simply as Broadway.) Eventually he bought three more carwashes: one in Harlem, one in the Bronx and one in Elizabeth, N.J.Mr. Vázquez did not respond to requests for an interview, but Ofelia Sanchez, his girlfriend of 30 years, said that the carwash employees were not exploited. “We are immigrants ourselves,” she said in a lengthy phone interview. “We treated them like family.” The workers’ claims that they had been underpaid, she said, were lies. He may have had “a different way of doing things,” Ms. Sanchez said, but “José Vázquez is not a crook.”He was certainly successful. Sometimes Mr. Vázquez would drive up in his red Ferrari or his Rolls-Royce, and the workers would wash it for him. None of the workers interviewed for this article could recall him ever leaving a tip.Mr. Vázquez’s crews were nevertheless considered tipped workers. Like bartenders and waiters, manicurists and hair stylists, dog groomers and parking valets, the carwasheros depend on the generosity of customers to make a living. All these workers toil in industries that can legally pay employees according to a subminimum “tipped wage” scale. Gratuities from customers are supposed to make up the difference, but if tips are scarce, the employer is legally obliged to top up their pay envelopes to the standard minimum.But for some tipped workers, it doesn’t work out that way. Carwash managers frequently help themselves to a portion of the tips, according to testimony at New York Labor Department hearings last summer. One worker testified that if the giant automatic brushes damaged a windshield wiper or a mirror, his boss would reach into the tip jar to compensate the customer.At the Vázquez carwashes, workers had no notion of what their base wage might be, and whether the tips were actually coming to them. The managers would simply collect the money from the tip boxes at the end of each shift, take it into the office, and then hand the workers their wages in cash.“You don’t know if the customers gave more tips or less tips,” said Josué Gómez, who worked at Broadway for nearly nine years. “They gave us an envelope, and we had to take whatever is inside.”The workers were not alone in their confusion. The tipped wage is so complicated — with several different wage scales, depending on how plentiful tips are — that even scrupulous employers may find it hard to determine what they owe. That complexity also makes it difficult to sort out if workers are getting swindled.“I have many years of experience analyzing wage theft,” said Deborah L. Axt, co-executive director at Make the Road New York, an advocacy organization. But the payroll records for tipped workers are often bewildering. “It’s virtually impossible to detect and enforce wage theft with a system where employers are allowed to count tips toward the minimum wage,” she said.For years, the carwasheros took their pay envelopes with little complaint, and payment practices at the carwashes escaped scrutiny.Without an army of government investigators deployed in every workplace, enforcement of wage laws depends to some extent on employees to report violations. But immigrant workers are both more likely to be cheated and also less likely to come forward with their grievances. They may fear retaliation from a boss, they may hesitate to contact a government agency and they may not know how to find a private lawyer who would take an interest in their troubles.Steven Arenson, a lawyer with Arenson, Dittmar & Karban, takes an interest in workers’ troubles. Mr. Arenson taught constitutional law at Yale College, and now represents employees who believe they have been underpaid, discriminated against, or harassed on the job. In musing about his career path, Mr. Arenson, who wears glasses and a yarmulke, quoted a medieval Talmudic scholar on the Torah’s prohibition against cheating a hired laborer. He is a familiar figure in certain Latino immigrant circles, and that is how, in late 2010, Marcos Díaz and Giovanni Paulino arrived at his Madison Avenue office with their tale of stolen wages.The minimum wage in New York City at the time was $7.25 an hour. Working 72 hours a week, they should have been paid $638, including time and a half for every hour after 40 hours. But the carwasheros received around $300 each week.Colleagues advised him not to get involved. “They told me it was a quixotic fool’s errand,” he recalled, and that he’d never recover enough from a small operation like a carwash to make it worth his time.But Mr. Arenson listened as they talked about working outdoors all day in the cold, with wet hands and feet, making sweatshop wages. “The exploitation was so extreme,” Mr. Arenson recalled. “I thought it was outrageous.” He agreed to take the case.And so began a seven-year battle that turned out to be anything but a routine wage-and-hour case. After Mr. Vázquez learned about the suit, he fired all the plaintiffs who were still employed at his carwashes. He then declared in court conferences that none of the men had ever worked for him. He said they were “squatters,” “delinquents,” and “agents of drug lords,” who had usurped his businesses and kept the money for themselves. He accused them of criminal witness tampering.Mr. Vázquez refused to testify, failed to show up for depositions, fired his lawyers on the eve of a rescheduled deposition, asked to have the case dismissed and then, two years on, half an hour before he was once again scheduled to be deposed, he filed for bankruptcy protection.It looked as though Mr. Arenson’s colleagues had been right; it seemed the carwasheros would never collect their stolen wages. “The hope is that they are going to wear you down,” Mr. Arenson said. “You’ll accept some very small offer of a settlement and go away. And often it works.”That’s not what happened. Indeed, the Chapter 11 filing was a grievous tactical error. Ordinarily bankruptcy protection halts all litigation, but Mr. Arenson persuaded the bankruptcy judge that his clients deserved their day in court, and the case was allowed to proceed. Worse yet for Mr. Vázquez’s prospects, when he failed to comply with the bankruptcy court’s instructions, the judge appointed two trustees, Donald Biase and Donald Conway, to manage his business and personal affairs.As Mr. Biase sorted through the carwashes’ finances, he discovered that the accounts for the all-cash operations were “essentially nonexistent.” The payroll tax records listed just four employees for four carwashes: Mr. Vázquez himself, his girlfriend, his brother, and his octogenarian father. “Obviously,” Mr. Biase concluded, “these payroll tax returns were works of fiction.”The trustees also discovered, hidden in a safe in Mr. Vázquez’s basement, a stash of nearly $1.3 million in cash that he had not disclosed. “I can say this,” Mr. Arenson said. “José Vázquez never failed to surprise us.”The trustees concluded that there was no defense Mr. Vázquez could make at trial, and in December 2014 the lawsuit was settled. The men who had labored the longest at the carwashes received close to $200,000 each. Together, the 18 workers received $1.65 million.But that was not the end of it. For months Mr. Arenson had been turning away employees of Mr. Vázquez’s businesses who had hoped to join the suit; the court’s deadline for submitting claims had long since expired. But Mr. Biase had been operating the carwashes (and paying a legal wage), and he understood that there were dozens more workers who might also have valid claims. He asked the court to allow more plaintiffs.In the next few months, 88 more workers signed on. This is where a lot of cases would fold: with so many claims, some going back a decade or more, it seemed likely there would be no money to share. But it turned out that Mr. Vázquez owned not just the carwash businesses but also three of the four plots of land beneath them, including one property in a rapidly gentrifying corner of Harlem. Together the three parcels were sold for more than $30 million. A seven-story condominium is being built on the lot where the Harlem carwash once stood.In December, five days before Christmas, the second group of plaintiffs received their settlement checks, ranging from a few thousand dollars to more than $90,000. Once the final payments are released this summer, the total settlement for all 106 workers, in both groups — including their attorney fees and expenses, which the judge ordered would be paid by Mr. Vázquez — will be roughly $8.5 million.On a day when he suddenly had money for more than the bare necessities, Manuel Mercado talked about his old job as a car washer. “One of the managers, I never will forget, we had an argument, and he said, ‘You’re a nobody, you don’t even have papers.’” Mr. Mercado now owns a small restaurant in Brooklyn and plans to put some of his settlement money into his new business. But his big dream, he said, “is to be able to go to college and get a degree in this country.”Martín Ureña’s first luxury would be buying Christmas presents for his wife and daughters. In the spring, the family will move back to the Dominican Republic. Josué Gómez would like to buy a house outside the city, to save for his daughters, and to send something to his family in the Dominican Republic. Juan Remigio Licona wants to help his children in Mexico, and simply “to live better than I did before.”But when explaining why they sued their employer, the workers didn’t talk about the money. They wanted to be treated fairly, Henry Paulino said. They did it “to make justice.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagThe federal government received more than 4,500 complaints in four years about the sexual abuse of immigrant children who were being held at government-funded detention facilities, including an increase in complaints while the Trump administration’s policy of separating migrant families at the border was in place, the Justice Department revealed this week.The records, which involve children who had entered the country alone or had been separated from their parents, detailed allegations that adult staff members had harassed and assaulted children, including fondling and kissing minors, watching them as they showered, and raping them. They also included cases of suspected abuse of children by other minors.From October 2014 to July 2018, the Office of Refugee Resettlement, a part of the Health and Human Services Department that cares for so-called unaccompanied minors, received a total of 4,556 allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment, 1,303 of which were referred to the Justice Department. Of those 1,303 cases deemed the most serious, 178 were accusations that adult staff members had sexually assaulted immigrant children, while the rest were allegations of minors assaulting other minors, the report said.“The safety of minors is our top concern when administering the UAC program,” Jonathan H. Hayes, the acting director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, said in a statement, using an abbreviation for unaccompanied children. “None of the allegations involved O.R.R. federal staff. These allegations were all fully investigated and remedial action was taken where appropriate.”[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The records do not detail the outcome of every complaint, but they indicate that some accusations were determined to be unfounded or lacking enough evidence to prosecute. In one case, a staff member at a Chicago detention facility was accused in April 2015 of fondling and kissing a child and was later charged with a crime. The report did not state whether that person had been found guilty.The documents, first reported by Axios, were made public by Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida, the night before a House Judiciary Committee hearing on Tuesday about the Trump administration’s policy of family separations at the southern border. That policy, which was put in place last spring, resulted in more than 2,700 children being separated from their parents under President Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy of prosecuting anyone caught crossing the border illegally, including those with families seeking asylum on humanitarian grounds.For most of the four years covered by the report, the number of allegations made to the Office of Refugee Resettlement stayed about the same from month to month. But the number of complaints rose after the Trump administration enacted its separation policy. From March 2018 to July 2018, the agency received 859 complaints, the largest number of reports during any five-month span in the previous four years. Of those, 342 allegations were referred to the Justice Department, the report showed.During the hearing on Tuesday, a discussion of the records sparked a heated exchange between Mr. Deutch and Cmdr. Jonathan White of the United States Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, who last year repeatedly warned a top official in Health and Human Services that the family separation policy could permanently traumatize young children.As Mr. Deutch read some of the report, Commander White interjected, “That is false!”He later apologized, claiming that a “vast majority of allegations proved to be unfounded.” He said he was unaware of any accusations against staff members that were found to have merit.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byObama was a lightning rod. Trump is a lightning strike.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.In 1992, before Bill Clinton became “our first black president,” before Newt Gingrich’s “Republican revolution,” before the advent of Barack Obama, I wrote a book about how race had come to dominate American politics.I argued that the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964set in motion a realignment of the two parties. As whites began to feel the costs of the civil rights revolution — affirmative action, busing, urban violence — Republicans recognized the potential of race to catalytically interact with the broader rights revolution and the anti-tax movement to drive working and middle class voters out of the Democratic Party.I also wrote about the political power of racial resentment:Race gave new strength to themes that in the past had been secondary — themes always present in American politics, but which previously lacked, in themselves, mobilizing power. Race was central, Richard Nixon and key Republican strategists began to recognize, to the fundamental conservative strategy of establishing a new, noneconomic polarization of the electorate, a polarization isolating a liberal, activist, culturally permissive, rights-oriented and pro-black Democratic Party against those unwilling to pay the financial and social costs of this reconfigured social order.The situation hasn’t changed much.Heading into the 2020 election, President Trump is prepared for the second time in a row to run a racist campaign. He continues, for example, to denigrate, in virulent terms, immigrants from Mexico and Central America.At the same time, Democrats are doubling down on a racially liberal political agenda, becoming more outspoken and more confrontational in their defense of diversity and multiculturalism. Two of the party’s top-tier candidates for president — Senator Cory Booker and Senator Kamala Harris — are African-American, one — Julián Castro — is Latino, and all of the current Democratic contenders unabashedly promote the rights of racial and ethnic minorities. The continuing Democratic quandary is how to maximize essential minority turnout, and at the same time retain — or recruit — sufficient numbers of white working class voters to secure victory on Election Day.My Times colleagues Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns reported on Feb. 25 that Democratic operatives are debating whether the party should spend “time, money and psychic energy tailoring their message to a heavily white, rural and blue-collar part of the country” or focus instead on areas where “their coalition is increasingly made up of racial minorities and suburbanites.”The dispute, according to Martin and Burns,is not merely a tactical one — it goes to the heart of how Democrats envision themselves becoming a majority party. The question is whether that is accomplished through a focus on kitchen-table topics like health care and jobs, aimed at winning moderates and disaffected Trump voters, or by unapologetically elevating matters of race and identity, such as immigration, to mobilize young people and minorities with new fervor.Poll data suggests that Trump is driving Democratic liberals further left and conservative Republicans further right on a key test of racial attitudes.Michael Tesler, a political scientist at the University of California-Irvine and the author of the 2016 book “Post Racial or Most Racial,” writes in “Racial Attitudes and American Politics,” a chapter in a forthcoming book:Democratic and Republican voters do not simply disagree about what the government should do on racially charged issues like immigration and affirmative action, they now inhabit increasingly separate realities about race in America.The growing alignment between racial attitudes and public opinion, Tesler continues, “has polarized the electorate and helped make American politics increasingly vitriolic.”Racial attitudes have, in turn, become indelibly linked to partisan identification and “party identification influences just about everything in contemporary American society,” Tesler writes:Partisanship is not only the most important determinant of our vote choices and policy preferences, but it shapes countless other beliefs and behaviors. Party identification has even been linked to who we find attractive and who we decide to marry, how we perceive objective conditions like the unemployment rate and federal budget deficit, which neighborhoods we want to live in, and the type of TV shows and cars we like.Because of this, Tesler argues, “the racialization of party identification is by itself the racialization of American politics and society.”Ryan Enos, a Harvard political scientist notes thatThe pull of racial attitudes seems to be moving both directions — so that racial conservatives are being drawn into the GOP and racial liberals are being drawn into the Democratic Party.Political ideology, Enos continued in an email,is a broad orientation that is influenced by basic psychological traits and these traits orient a person toward a particular worldview that can be ideologically conservative or liberal and also causes one to be more or less ethnocentric.The growing linkage between ideological and ethnocentric views has, in turn, contributed to a striking development in congressional elections.Stephen M. Utych, a political scientist at Boise State University, conducted a detailed analysis — “Man Bites Blue Dog: Are Moderates Really More Electable than Ideologues?” — of winners and losers in House races from 1980 to 2012.Utych found that a core premise of both political operatives and political scientists — that “moderate candidates should be more electable in a general election than ideologically extreme candidates” — is no longer true.In fact, in 2012, ideologically extreme candidates became more electable than moderates, as the accompanying graphic shows.Moderate candidates for U.S. House seats used to have a big edge over those who were much more ideological (either toward the left or the right). In 2012, the ideologues were more successful, and moderates’ odds of winning fell to about 50-50.CANDIDATESWONModerate candidatesEVENCHANCE OFWINNINGStrongly ideological candidatesModerateslost their edgein 2012 (the latestdata available)CANDIDATESLOST’80’84’88’92’96’00’04’08’12CANDIDATES WONModerate candidatesEVEN CHANCE OF WINNINGModerateslost their edgein 2012 (the latestdata available)Strongly ideological candidatesCANDIDATES LOST’80’84’88’92’96’00’04’08’12By The New York Times | Source: analysis of Database on Ideology, Money in Politics and Elections (Adam Bonica, Stanford University) by Stephen Utych, Boise State UniversityIn 1980, at the start of the period Utych studied,moderates were quite likely to win — very extreme candidates were less than 20 percent likely to win election in 1980, while ideologically moderate candidates were nearly 80 percent likely to win.By 2008, however, Ultych observes,ideologically extreme candidates and moderates became indistinguishable in their likelihood of winning an election, with predicted probabilities of winning hovering around 50 percent for both.In an email, Utych pointed out that racial views are extremely significant in the trends he describes:The importance of racial attitudes, and how intertwined with politics they’ve become, can go a long way to explaining polarization.Tesler and many other academics use a set of polling questions to determine the intensity of what they call “racial resentment.” Whites who score high in racial resentment have consistently voted in higher percentages for Republican presidential candidates.“From 1988 to 2012 average white resentment scores were very stable, but in 2016 something quite notable happened,” Tesler explained by email. Referring to data from American National Election Studies, Tesler pointed out that White resentment was significantly lower in 2016 than had ever been recorded in the ANES. It’s not just the ANES or resentment, either. Across several surveys and attitudes, the country has grown significantly more liberal on several questions related to race, immigration, Islam and gender since Trump’s campaign.The shift to the left was not, however, across the board. It was driven by one group: Democrats and voters who lean toward the Democratic Party.“This growing tolerance is largely confined to Democrats and Democratic leaning Independents,” Tesler wrote, adding thatDemocrats have grown more tolerant as a backlash against Trumpism. It also means that while the country is growing more tolerant, they’re also more polarized over race and ethnicity.The accompanying graphic, based on data provided by Tesler, demonstrates the growing partisan division over race, in this case showing levels of agreement with the statement “racial discrimination is the main reason why many black people can’t get ahead these days.”From 2008 through 2016, very few Republicans agree, and their disagreement remains constant. Democratic agreement, in contrast, shot up, from just over a quarter to well over half.A Pew survey found that a majority of Democrats, after the election of President Trump, agreed with this statement: “Racial discrimination is the main reason why many black people can’t get ahead these days.” Republican views scarcely budged.75% AGREE66%Trump announcescandidacy in June 20154450%Democrats2825%Republicans1112%8Nov.2009Mar.’11Jan.’12Mar.’14Aug.’15Feb.’17July’1775% AGREE66%Trump announces candidacyin June 20154450%Democrats2825%Republicans1112%8Nov.2009Mar.’11Jan.’12Mar.’14Aug.’15Feb.’17July’17By The New York Times | Sources: Pew Research Center; “Identity Crisis: The 2016 Presidential Campaign and the Battle for the Meaning of America Hardcover,” by John Sides, Michael Tesler and Lynn VavreckTesler argues that racially resentful voters turned against Obama in higher percentages than in past elections when the Democratic nominee was white, but Obama made up for his losses with higher turnout and stronger margins of victory among blacks and white liberals. Tesler calls this phenomenon “two sides of racialization”:Obama performed particularly poorly among racially resentful whites, but garnered more votes from African Americans and white racial liberals than a similarly situated white Democratic candidate.Instead of costing him votes, Tesler continued, thelarge effects of racial attitudes in Obama’s election, therefore, did not so much hurt him electorally as they polarized voter preferences based on their feelings about African-Americans.In 2016, even though both presidential candidates were white, race played an even larger role than it did in the two Obama elections.That year, Tesler wrote,the American public saw a much wider gulf between Clinton and Trump’s positions on issues like immigration and federal aid to African Americans than they had perceived between prior Democratic and Republican presidential candidates.That, in turn, set the stage forattitudes about race and ethnicity to matter more in 2016 than they had in modern times. Across several different racial attitude measures in a number of different surveys, views about race and ethnicity were more strongly related to vote choice in 2016 than they were in Obama’s elections.On Feb. 19, Gallup reported that the liberal faction of the Democratic Party is growing:Increased liberal identification has been particularly pronounced among non-Hispanic white Democrats, rising 20 percentage points from an average 34 percent in the early 2000s to 54 percent in the latest period. By contrast, Gallup trends show a nine-point rise in the percent liberal among Hispanic Democrats, from 29 percent to 38 percent, and an eight-point increase among black Democrats, from 25 percent to 33 percent.Lydia Saad, a senior editor at Gallup, provided additional survey data showing a marked leftward trend among white Democrats during and after the election of President Trump. The percentage of white Democrats who describe themselves as “socially liberal” grew from 39 percent in 2001 to 2006 to 50 percent in 2007 to 2012 and to 63 percent in 2013 to 2018, according to Gallup. This 24-point increase outpaced black Democrats, who went from 33 to 41 percent, and Hispanic Democrats who went from 28 to 36 percent. (Of course, the percentage of white voters who identify as Democrats is much lower than it is for African-America or Hispanic voters.)The Gallup data showed similar leftward shifts among white Democrats on taxing the rich, abortion, gay rights and a wide range of other issues.Not only has the Trump presidency pushed Democrats in a progressive direction, Trump himself has played a crucial role in maintaining Democratic unity, according to Gallup:The Democrats’ grand unifier stands outside the party. Despite differing ideologies and opposing views on some issues, on average last year, 82 percent of conservative Democrats, 91 percent of moderate Democrats and 96 percent of liberal Democrats disapproved of the job President Donald Trump was doing as president.As they prepare for the general election, Democrats battling for the nomination (and their strategists) will struggle to understand how and where their increasingly strong commitment to racial and cultural liberalism conflicts with the views of the general electorate.This week, for example, the Pew Research Center released a study showing that 73 percent of Americans oppose racial and ethnic affirmative action policies in college admissions. Pew reported that 7 percent of those surveyed said race should be a major factor, while 19 percent said it should be a minor factor.Similarly, Democratic strategists will be evaluating the issue of reparations, which three major candidates — Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Julián Castro — have endorsed so far, in various forms.In 2015, CNN and the Kaiser Family Foundation polled Americans’ view of reparations and found that while African Americans were in favor (52-42), Hispanics (at 57-37), and whites (89-8), were firmly against.In “The Distorting Effects of Racial Animus on Proximity Voting in the 2016 Elections,” Carlos Algara and Isaac Hale, political scientists at the University of California at Davis, show how powerful race has become in mobilizing support for Republicans: “Not only did Trump’s frequent invocations of race in the 2016 campaign prime voters with high levels of racial animus to evaluate the presidential contest in racial terms,” they write, but the increased salience of race in the 2016 campaign “percolated to relatively low-information congressional contests as well.”The result, Algara and Hale show, is that voters liberal on issues other than race defect “to Republican candidates up and down the ticket when they harbor racial animus.” Racial animosity, they write, hurts both black and white Democratic candidates: “Racial animus (at least when salient) harms Democratic candidates across the board.”I began this column with a pair of quotes from my 1992 book, “Chain Reaction.” Here is another pair:As the civil rights movement became national, as it became clearly associated with the Democratic Party, and as it began to impinge on local neighborhoods and schools, it served to crack the Democratic loyalties of key white voters. Crucial numbers of voters — in the white, urban and suburban neighborhoods of the North, and across the South — were, in addition, deeply angered and distressed by aspects of the rights revolution. It had been among the white working and lower-middle classes that many of the social changes stemming from the introduction of new rights — civil rights for minorities, reproductive and workplace rights for women, constitutional protections for the criminally accused, immigration opportunities for those from developing countries, free-speech rights to pornographers, and the surfacing of highly visible homosexual communities — have been most deeply resisted.And from the book’s conclusion:At stake is the American experiment itself, endangered by a rising tide of political cynicism and alienation, and basic uncertainties as to whether or not we are capable of transmitting a sense of inclusion and shared citizenship across an immense and diverse population — whether or not we can uphold our traditional commitment to the possibilities of justice and equality expressed in our founding documents and embedded in our most valued democratic institutions.The question stands out even more starkly now than it did 27 years ago, with a president we could not then have imagined, who is willing, even eager, to play with fire.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben KenigsbergMuch of “Joseph Pulitzer: Voice of the People” is devoted to explaining how the pioneering newspaperman redefined American journalism. He pushed for language that the masses could understand. He devised visual presentations that accounted for how readers’ eyes might skip around to different parts of a page. And his papers engaged in a sensationalist style that, as described, was only slightly more responsible than that of William Randolph Hearst, with whom Pulitzer competed during the buildup to the Spanish-American War.None of these skills, except perhaps a flair for direct, comprehensible explanations, apply to the movie, a standard biographical primer from Oren Rudavsky. Notwithstanding the dynamic layouts from Pulitzer’s New York World, the film hasn’t found the material to make this subject pop visually. Historians and other experts describe Pulitzer’s life and ethos accompanied by the usual archival photographs. Adam Driver narrates, while Liev Schreiber speaks Pulitzer’s words, appropriately if distractingly mimicking a Hungarian accent.Perhaps the biggest surprise from today’s standards is how freely journalism in the late 19th century served as a revolving door with politics. (We hear about how Pulitzer, serving in the Missouri State House, promoted his own agenda in print.) And Pulitzer’s life — as an immigrant who championed other immigrants, the poor and unions, but had high-society ambitions that clashed with those ideals — is a fascinating study in contradictions. While there are amazing anecdotes here, there is little to catch the eye or ear.Movie data powered by IMDb.comNot rated. Running time: 1 hour 24 minutes.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Palko KaraszLONDON — Ordering landlords to check prospective tenants’ immigration status leads to racial discrimination and breaches human rights, Britain’s High Court has ruled, in a judgment that deals a blow to migration control measures championed by Prime Minister Theresa May.The mandatory checks are one plank in what has become known as the government’s “hostile environment” policy, which aims to force people in the country illegally to leave by blocking their access to jobs, bank accounts and free medical care, among other things.The policy has been criticized as imposing heavy burdens on legal immigrants and British citizens who are not white but are obliged to prove their status repeatedly. It has brought particularly harsh consequences for the “Windrush generation” of migrants encouraged to move from the Caribbean after World War II to help with Britain’s reconstruction, many of whom never had — or previously needed — the sort of documents demanded.Landlords said the mandatory checks made them “unwilling border police” and discouraged them from renting to anyone whose migration status might not be straightforward.The judgment does not strike down the 2014 legislation that imposed document checks on tenants in England. But it asks Parliament to reconsider how the law is applied and blocks plans to extend the checks to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.A report commissioned by the Residential Landlords Association — which backed the legal challenge brought by an immigrant rights group and decided by the High Court on Friday — found that close to half of landlords were less likely to rent to someone without a British passport.“The measures have a disproportionately discriminatory effect,” Justice Martin Spencer said in his judgment. Even if the checks had been shown to be effective in controlling migration, he added, he “would have found that this was significantly outweighed by the discriminatory effect.”Evidence submitted to the court showed that the government had failed to measure whether the checks resulted in discrimination, or even whether they helped detect and remove people who were in the country illegally.According to the Migration Observatory at the University of Oxford, forced removals and voluntary departures from Britain have declined since 2013.“The net has been cast too wide and the effect of the scheme has been to cause landlords to commit nationality and/or race discrimination against those who are perfectly entitled to rent, with the result that they are less able to find homes than (white) British citizens,” the judge said, citing claims from the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants, which brought the case to court.Mrs. May, who was Britain’s home secretary for six years before becoming prime minister in 2016, has been closely identified with moves to tighten the country’s migration policies. She promised to create “a really hostile environment” for illegal immigration in a 2012 interview with The Daily Telegraph, although her government now prefers to speak of a “compliant environment.”Measures to achieve that included a poster campaign, with billboards driven on vans across London’s suburbs in the summer of 2013, urging those in the country illegally to “Go home or face arrest.”The billboards drew widespread criticism and quickly disappeared. But they were followed by the legislation mandating document checks at many key points in daily life, a cultural shift for Britain, which has no mandatory identity card system, unlike many European countries, and has long considered its relative lack of official paperwork a point of national pride.Criticism of the measures reached a peak last year, when the government had to apologize to Windrush migrants — the name refers to the Empire Windrush, the liner that brought the first large postwar group of arrivals from the West Indies — who had lived legally in Britain for decades but lost their jobs, were denied medical care and even faced the threat of deportation.Friday’s judgment was “another nail in the coffin for the government’s misguided, discriminatory and unworkable hostile environment policy,” Lara ten Caten, a solicitor with Liberty, a group that campaigns for civil liberties and supported the court challenge, told the BBC.“While effective immigration control is a legitimate aim for any government, the Home Office must stop outsourcing its discriminatory policies to third parties who are ill-equipped to enforce them but may be slapped with heavy fines and even end up in prison if they don’t,” she added.The Residential Landlords Association called on the government to scrap the checks and stop relying on landlords to “do the job of the Home Office.”“We have warned all along that turning landlords into untrained and unwilling border police would lead to the exact form of discrimination the court has found,” it said in a statement on Friday.In an emailed statement, the Home Office said it was disappointed with the judgment and that it had been granted permission to appeal.“In the meantime, we are giving careful consideration to the judge’s comments,” the statement said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesWelcome to Crossing the Border, a limited-run weekly newsletter from The New York Times. Like what you see? Send this to a friend. If someone forwarded it to you, sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.For weeks, President Trump has been criticized for exaggerating the brutality experienced by migrant women on the border as he makes his case for a wall.A Rose Garden address in January was only one of the times when Mr. Trump has made the claim:“Women are tied up. They’re bound. Duct tape put around their faces, around their mouths. In many cases, they can’t even breathe. They’re put in the backs of cars or vans or trucks.”If the president was suggesting that such savagery occurs daily on America’s southern border, then he was indeed exaggerating. News organizations and immigrant advocate groups were quick to express skepticism. Trafficking experts told the news media they had not heard of such an episode.But there is some truth to the president’s descriptions of the threat of sexual assault and of women who have been duct-taped and bound.Undocumented women have been duct-taped and tied up before, during and after their migration to the United States, The Times discovered while reporting this story. Maybe not frequently, but it has happened.“Because I didn’t want to let them, they tied my feet together and my hands behind my back,” a 45-year-old Honduran woman told us in an interview. She said she was raped after her smugglers forced her into prostitution shortly after she illegally crossed the border in Texas. The woman, who now lives in Austin and who asked to be identified by her first name, Lucy, was held captive in a makeshift brothel in the South Texas city of McAllen.Human smuggling has grown more and more violent, as border security tightens and as the smuggling of people and drugs becomes costlier and riskier. In this particular kind of border crossing, the smugglers are paid thousands of dollars by the migrants, but the relationship resembles not seller and buyer but prisoner and warden.The smugglers are called coyotes, and the migrants are called pollos, or chickens, and these terms very much reflect the dehumanized nature of a migrant’s journey through the borderlands. Clients are sometimes forced to take off their shoes or strip to their underwear to prevent them from fleeing. The coyotes control when and what the migrants eat, and where they sleep. They decide when their debt can be considered paid.In one trailer home in Carrizo Springs, Tex., smugglers raped a Salvadoran woman and tortured two men — covering the men’s hands with plastic bags, putting their hands on a stool and pounding their fingers with a hammer — all because their relatives failed to pay the fees.And the smugglers are not the only culprits.In 2000, a Border Patrol agent in Arizona, Dennis M. Johnson, was charged with sexual assault and kidnapping after he forced a 21-year-old migrant from El Salvador to disrobe and perform oral sex on him while she was handcuffed with her hands behind her back.In 2014 near McAllen, three Honduran migrants — a woman, her daughter and her daughter’s 14-year-old friend — crossed the Rio Grande and came across a uniformed Border Patrol agent. The agent, Esteban Manzanares, bound them with plastic police restraints, put silver duct-tape on their mouths and kidnapped them, driving them around in the back of his Border Patrol truck.“I thought he was going to harm us, because from the moment that he duct-taped our mouths, I felt that that was not normal anymore,” said the woman, 40, who asked to be identified by her initials, M.G.Mr. Manzanares tried to kill M.G. and her daughter, and then handcuffed the 14-year-old girl to a tree, her mouth still taped. He finished his shift, returned to the tree for the girl, drove her to his apartment and tied her to a bunk-bed, where he repeatedly sexually assaulted her. Her ordeal ended only many hours later, when law enforcement agents closed in on the apartment, and Mr. Manzanares, facing imminent capture, took his own life.— MANNY FERNANDEZ, reporting from McAllen, Tex.Manny is one of a team of New York Times journalists currently deployed along the border. Each week they’ll be sharing a slice of their reporting about the border and the people who spend time on both sides of it.Do you have questions about life on the border? Or feedback about this newsletter? Email us at: crossingtheborder@nytimes.com.It’s hard to find one number that encapsulates the myths versus the realities of living in a border city. This one comes pretty close.It starts with a question about crime. How many murders occurred last year in the South Texas border city of McAllen, the center of the busiest Border Patrol sector and the release point for thousands of asylum seekers from Central America?Zero.That’s right — McAllen had zero homicides in 2018, down from seven in 2017, three in 2016 and two in 2015.How did it happen?There is cartel-fueled drug violence directly across the border in parts of Mexico, but it largely fails to spillover into McAllen. Undocumented immigrants and drugs are smuggled through McAllen, but the city is largely a crossing point for that flow of people and drugs, not a destination point. Last year’s zero homicides were part of an overall low-crime pattern in the city, which has a population of 142,000. In 1991, about 2,150 cars were stolen in McAllen. Last year, there were 55.“Right now we have the lowest crime rate in McAllen in a 34-year period,” said the city’s chief of police, Victor Rodriguez. “The crisis is not at the border. The crisis is at the destination points. That’s what gets lost all the time.”— MANNY FERNANDEZ, reporting from McAllen, Tex.A woman in Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody gave birth to a stillborn baby. The episode was one of several to thrust the issue of caring for migrants in United States custody — especially the youngest — back into the spotlight this week.Here’s how to go deeper into the conversation.• House Democrats this week issued subpoenas to three Cabinet officials, escalating a battle against the Trump administration’s policy last yearof separating migrant children from their families. The subpoenas came hours after a House committee sharply questioned an official with the Department of Health and Human Services who oversaw the policy’s implementation. Read more here.• One issue was this report, from January, that thousands more children might have been separated from their parents at the border last year than the administration initially reported.• According to a Justice Department report released just ahead of the hearing, the federal government received more than 4,500 allegations of sexual abuse against immigrant children who were being held at government-funded detention facilities over a recent four-year period. Read more about the report here.• The attorney general of California released findings of a state audit of immigrant detention centers. It found detainees faced barriers to medical treatment. Read more at The Los Angeles Times. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Gabrielle DebinskiThe idea that the diaspora experience is central to America’s narrative is famously expressed in Emma Lazarus’s sonnet at the Statue of Liberty, with its celebrated line, “Give me your tired, your poor/Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.”Our immigration ethos, and an exploration of immigrants’ contributions to American arts and culture, are at the heart of Carnegie Hall’s Migrations: The Making of America festival, which is set to begin on March 9 and run through May 19, and will include concerts at the hall, as well as programming at 80 partner institutions around New York. (Each organization produces its own events.)[Check out our Culture Calendar here.]The goal, according to Clive Gillinson, Carnegie Hall’s executive and artistic director, is to examine the indelible link between the mass movement of people over the past century and American history. “We are inviting audiences to look more closely at how the migrations of people to and within this country, and the evolution of art forms that they have developed here, have been powerful influences on the creation and development of American culture,” he said in a statement.Carnegie Hall will amplify the musical legacies of three migrations: the arrival of Eastern European and Russian Jews between 1881 and 1924; the Irish and Scottish migrations of the 18th and 19th centuries; and the Great Migration of African-Americans from the rural South to the big cities of the Northeast, Midwest and West between 1917 and the 1970s.Three headlining shows will represent musical culture, with traditional Scots, Irish and American folk music; Yiddish musical theater; and jazz and blues.[Read about Jacob Lawrence’s famous paintings of the Great Migration.] Six additional musical soirees (two per motif) will offer contemporary takes on the music — like new-fashioned renditions of Irish and Celtic sounds and klezmer rhythms infused with soulful bluegrass — highlighting how immigrants’ artistry often straddles cultures in America’s melting pot.Cultural events presented by partners will be broader in scope. Such interdisciplinary events, from the Museum of the City of New York, El Museo del Barrio and American Irish Historical Society, examine issues surrounding identity, cultural diffusion and what it means to be an American. More than 100 exhibitions, panels, dance performances, concerts and culinary events are planned.For many institutions, the festival provides a welcome platform to draw attention to the distinct experiences of their communities. The YIVO Institute for Jewish Research, for example, has delved into its extensive archives and has organized an exhibition of prescient cartoons published in Der Groyser Kundes, the Lower East Side’s premier Yiddish satirical weekly paper in the early 1920s. The exhibition, “The Door Slams Shut: Jews and Immigration in the Face of American Reaction,” focuses on New York’s idiosyncratic history in welcoming migrants.“Because our collection has such a large number of documents and artifacts relating to immigration, it just seemed like a perfect fit to explore these complex dynamics,” Eddy Portnoy, YIVO’s director of exhibitions, said in a phone interview.The China Institute, a nearly 100-year-old nonprofit organization, will host an immigration-related panel with the award-winning playwright David Henry Hwang (M. Butterfly) and the musician Du Yun on March 13.More information is at carnegiehall.org/migrations. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriA 24-year-old Honduran woman gave birth to a stillborn baby boy last week while in ICE custody, the authorities said Monday, further raising concerns about the care pregnant women receive while detained.The woman, whose name has not been released, was apprehended by United States Border Patrol officials near Hidalgo, Tex., on Feb. 18, according to a joint statement issued Monday by Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection. She told the authorities that she was six months pregnant, and she was taken to a hospital and examined, the agencies said.The woman was placed in ICE custody at the Port Isabel Detention Center near Los Frenos, Tex., and set to be released last Friday. Then she complained of abdominal pain and was to be sent to a hospital, but went into labor.She gave birth to an unresponsive baby boy. Danielle Bennett, an ICE spokeswoman, said she had seen no information that indicated the woman’s detention contributed to the stillbirth.“Although for investigative and reporting purposes, a stillbirth is not considered an in-custody death, ICE and CBP officials are proactively disclosing the details of this tragic event to be transparent with Congress, the media and the public,” the agencies said in the statement.Ms. Bennett said that ICE has 60 pregnant detainees in custody and that between Oct. 1, 2017, and Aug. 31, 2018, more than 1,600 pregnant women had been booked into ICE custody.Twenty-eight women “may have experienced a miscarriage just prior to, or while in ICE custody” between Oct. 1, 2016, and Aug. 31, 2018, she said.Ms. Bennett said that without a full understanding of someone’s medical history, it was difficult to tell what caused a miscarriage or when exactly it began.Randy Capps, director of United States research for the Migration Policy Institute, said because the woman’s detention was only for a few days, “it would seem unlikely detention was the cause” of the stillbirth.But how immigration officials care for people in their custody has been under scrutiny in recent months. An 8-year-old Guatemalan boy, Felipe Gómez Alonso, died on Christmas Eve while in United States custody, and three weeks earlier, a 7-year-old Guatemalan girl, Jakelin Caal Maquin, died in Border Patrol custody.“There has been more and more public death,” said Erika Andiola, chief of advocacy for the Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services, or Raices, a nonprofit organization that provides low-cost legal defense services to immigrant and refugee families in Texas.She said the treatment of pregnant women had been a particular focus after the Trump administration said it would stop assuming pregnant women should be released, instead detaining them on a case-by-case basis.Ms. Andiola said based on interviews with migrants who have recently left detention centers, some pregnant women do not get the care they need at the centers. For example, some were told they would be taken to off-site medical professionals but never were, she said.“We know those are not the best conditions for pregnant women at all,” Ms. Andiola said. “This is not surprising, really.”The story of the Honduran woman detailed Monday still has many uncertainties. It is not clear how or why she was taken into custody by the Border Patrol officers or how it was determined that she should be released.Ms. Bennett, the spokeswoman, referred questions about the woman’s apprehension to Customs and Border Protection. C.B.P. did not answer questions seeking more information Monday.AdvertisementWe’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jon CaramanicaALPHARETTA, Ga. — At the beginning of the year, 21 Savage was at his commercial apex. His second album, “I Am > I Was,” spent two weeks atop the Billboard album chart. “Rockstar,” his collaboration with Post Malone, was nominated for two Grammys, and he was set to perform at the ceremony.But now he has a new, perhaps even higher-profile public role: To his supporters, he’s a possible martyr of conscience, under fire for his choice to express his political views in his music.A week before the Grammys, 21 Savage was arrested in Atlanta and put into removal proceedings by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which said he was an “unlawfully present United Kingdom national” and charged him with overstaying his visa. A week and a half later, he was released on $100,000 bond.21 Savage — birth name She’yaa bin Abraham-Joseph — was, unknown to most, born in London in 1992, and an undocumented immigrant in the United States. That alone makes him vulnerable to removal by the immigration authorities.But in an interview earlier this month, two of his attorneys — Dina LaPolt, his general counsel, and Charles Kuck, his immigration attorney — proposed that there might have been political motivations at play.Three days before 21 Savage’s arrest on Feb. 3, LaPolt was already putting an action plan in motion. “We had heard that they were looking at him,” she said.In late January, 21 Savage performed a new version of his single “A Lot” on “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon,” with lyrics that touched on the issue of children being separated from their parents at the United States border, a controversial Trump administration tactic to discourage illegal immigration.“There was scuttlebutt after the Jimmy Fallon show” coming from “some very high levels in Washington,” LaPolt added. What she heard suggested that 21 Savage had ruffled feathers.And so on the Thursday before the Super Bowl, LaPolt dispatched another attorney from her firm, Danielle Price, to Georgia to accompany 21 Savage back to California, a more immigrant-friendly state with a newly passed sanctuary law. He declined to go until after completing his contractual commitments — a pair of concerts at events surrounding the game — that weekend.While his case winds its way through the immigration system, 21 Savage’s team has been actively underscoring the political dimension to his plight and marshaling public support. A #Free21Savage coalition of a couple of dozen activist organizations is drawing attention to his situation, and two members of Congress — Hank Johnson and Zoe Lofgren — spoke publicly on his behalf while he was still in detention. Lofgren, from California and chairwoman of the House Judiciary Immigration and Citizenship Subcommittee, released a statement opening the door for 21 Savage to appear as a witness before her subcommittee and floating the idea that he had been arrested as a result of publicly questioning United States immigration policy. “Was his arrest in response to his Constitutionally protected speech?” the statement said. “It looks like that.”Bryan D. Cox, ICE’s Southern Region Communications Director, said in an email, “We’re not able to give any additional comment on this case.”Now that 21 Savage has been released on bond, his case moves to a different docket, for those who aren’t detained. The wait for his next hearing could be more than a year. “Time is our friend,” Kuck said. “We want to make sure we can maximize the politics and the process.”When 21 Savage was in detention, he “tried to refrain from talking to my mama and my kids — I ain’t want them to hear me through the phone,” the rapper said. He did want to speak with his lawyers, however. “I don’t like hopes and none of that,” he said he had told them. “Keep it real.”Between them, there is an easy rapport. In his music, 21 Savage rarely raps above a whisper, and in person, he was contained and disarmingly calm, speaking forcefully without ever raising his voice. On the day after his release, he was wearing all black, from his Balenciaga jacket to his Prada shoes, and his demeanor was studious. By contrast, his lawyers were sharp-tongued and defiant. While they barked on his behalf, he maintained imperturbable cool.For now, anyway, they will do much of the speaking. After interviews the day after his release with The New York Times and “Good Morning America,” 21 Savage has gone almost completely silent.HIP-HOP MYTHOLOGIES are built on regional specificities. More than any other genre in American pop, rap music understands itself as the product of place. 21 Savage’s Atlanta is and has been the center of the genre’s innovation for more than a decade now — the most vital creative hotbed of the most vital American music.So the knowledge that he initially came from elsewhere served as a useful reminder that this American music, like so many American musics before it, wouldn’t sound the same without immigrants. A quick reminder: Almost all of hip-hop’s founder generation — Kool Herc, Grandmaster Flash, Doug E. Fresh — was born in the Caribbean. The island influence continues through today: Last year, Nicki Minaj wrote on Instagram about coming to the United States as an undocumented immigrant from Trinidad and Tobago when she was 5.Hip-hop has also faced immigration crises before. Slick Rick, one of the most innovative rappers of the late 1980s and early 1990s, was born in England. In 1991, he pleaded guilty to two counts of attempted murder (and other charges) in connection with the 1990 shooting of his former bodyguard. In 2001, he was arrested after performing on a cruise ship that left American waters and put into deportation proceedings, beginning a tug-of-war over his residency until 2008, when he was pardoned by David A. Paterson, then the governor of New York. In 2016, Slick Rick was granted United States citizenship.In 2009, Shyne — a protégé of Sean Combs — was deported to Belize, where he was born, not long after completing his sentence for attempted murder, assault and reckless endangerment related to the infamous 1999 shooting at Club New York (which also involved Combs and his girlfriend at the time, Jennifer Lopez).Slick Rick was, at times, a cause célèbre, but largely among the genre’s elders. Shyne became, in essence, collateral damage of late-90s rap excess. But both cases unfolded in far less dramatic moments of the immigration debate. By rapping about the child separation policy, 21 Savage inserted himself directly into a noxious political climate. And while many rappers, from YG to Eminem to Jay-Z, have spoken openly of their contempt for President Trump and his policies, none had as much to lose.Early in his career, 21 Savage did not immediately appear as a likely candidate for a political agitator. On his earliest mixtapes, he emerged as a coldhearted menace, dulled to the world’s pain. His lyrics were bleak, his attitude bleaker. Over the last couple of years, as he has become increasingly popular, he’s been steadily remaking his public image — a product, he said, of being exposed to more of the world.“I think financial freedom made me grow as a person,” he said, speaking about his desire to help others. “I did it as soon as I had the resources and the time. ‘Cause when you first start making money, it’s like you still figuring yourself out.”“But then it’s like, O.K., we a machine now,” he added. “Now we can get everybody else right.”It was this impulse, LaPolt said, that resonated with her when she was first in discussions to represent 21 Savage last year. “I realized how much he did for the community,” she said, citing his back-to-school drives and interest in spreading financial literacy to underserved populations. “I said to the rest of the team, ‘This needs to be at the forefront of the storytelling.’”LaPolt is a prominent music industry attorney who was one of the primary engines of the Music Modernization Act, the copyright legislation that was signed into law in October and which, among other things, updates how royalties are paid in the streaming age. When 21 Savage was arrested, she put her Washington connections to work. Johnson, a Congressman from Georgia who had attended a back-to-school drive organized by 21 Savage, wrote a letter of support. Lofgren’s statement came soon after.On the Sunday of the Grammys ceremony, which 21 Savage ended up watching on a television in his detention-center cell, Kuck called ICE’s toll-free number for detainee information and learned that, unexpectedly, a hearing had been scheduled for Tuesday morning.NOW THAT 21 SAVAGE has been released from detention, the push to secure his status continues. His legal team has applied for cancellation of removal, which is available to individuals who have been in the United States for more than 10 years, have American citizen family members who rely on them, are of good moral character and have no disqualifying criminal convictions.In interviews early in his career, 21 Savage spoke frankly about his life before music. “I done sold cocaine, sold crack cocaine,” he told The Fader in 2016. “I never sold, like, a whole brick. I done took bricks.” In 2014 he was arrested, and later convicted, on drug charges. Last year, through a first-offender program, the conviction was removed from public record, though that still had “monstrous immigration consequences,” Kuck said. Subsequently, LaPolt hired the Atlanta-area attorney Abbi S. Taylor, who secured the vacating of the plea and the dismissal of the charges. The file is now sealed. A search for 21 Savage on the Georgia Felon Search website turns up nothing.In an hour-plus interview, 21 Savage declined to speak only about the particulars of his prior interactions with law enforcement.When ICE arrested 21 Savage, it stated that he had been convicted of an “aggravated felony” in addition to overstaying his visa. At the hearing where he was granted bond, it formally withdrew that charge.“Not only does he not have a conviction, but there are no pending charges, there never will be any charges from that, and that case is sealed,” Kuck said, “so it simply never happened.”But the specter of that case highlights a potential continuing concern: that 21 Savage’s public persona — his art, his social media, his prior public statements — could be leveraged against him. (Public image, and especially lyrical content, have often been used in legal proceedings involving hip-hop artists, as seen recently in the case of 6ix9ine.)Kuck said that such topics were raised in the first hearing, though, “it didn’t come up in a way that we believe hurt our case.”“I’m very optimistic,” Kuck added. “I am convinced that we will ultimately obtain permanent residence for him.”Asked if the uncertainty he still faces causes him anxiety, 21 Savage was blunt: “Hell yeah.”That he could be used as a political cudgel isn’t lost on anyone, including 21 Savage himself. “He goes, ‘Well, I don’t want Trump to come at me,’ and I go, ‘You’re the last person he’s going to come after,’” LaPolt said. “Who in their right mind is going to come after him and not have a complete backlash?”But for someone who for most of his life has lived with the permanent uncertainty of the undocumented, he was at his most exultant and confident speaking about not having to fight alone.“It’s like putting bulletproof glass in front of a bulletproof vest,” 21 Savage said. “I’m going to stand up already, this vest already going to stop any bullet you throw, and y’all going to come help and put some glass in front of it too? This can’t be stopped. We a tank now. We was already the army — now we coming in tanks.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThey’ve brought down a government. Now they could bring down the entire country.By Omar G. EncarnaciónMr. Encarnación is a professor and expert on Spanish politics.Anyone looking for evidence of how irrational politics can be should look to Catalonia right now.Earlier this month, Catalan separatists in the Spanish Parliament voted against the 2019 national budget proposal of the Socialist prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, forcing a snap general election in late April. The separatists were retaliating against Mr. Sánchez because he would not agree to a referendum on Catalan independence. The last referendum, organized in October 2017, which was declared illegal by Spain’s Constitutional Tribunal and boycotted by those opposed to independence, plunged Spain into its deepest political crisis since the death of Gen. Francisco Franco in 1975.In forcing early elections and the potential fall of the Sánchez government, which came to power in June following a vote of no confidence against Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of the conservative Popular Party, the Catalan separatists appear willing to forfeit the best chance they have had in decades to advance Catalan autonomy. The Sánchez government has supported dialogue with Catalan separatists; appointed many Catalans to prominent cabinet positions, including Meritxell Batet, responsible for managing regional affairs; and agreed to a substantial increase in public spending in Catalonia for 2019. It even consented to talks about amending the Spanish Constitution to expand autonomy for all of Spain’s regions.Those gains could be quickly erased if the Popular Party is returned to power, something that the separatists were apparently aware of when they voted against the budget proposal. The newspaper El País reported that separatist leaders voted “with long faces” because they knew that they were most likely contributing to the rise of a new government that could reimpose direct control of Madrid over Catalonia as the Rajoy government did in 2017.Indeed, chances are that a new right-wing government in Madrid would be even more intolerant of Catalan separatism than Mr. Rajoy was. Since Mr. Rajoy’s departure from office, the Popular Party has hardened its stance on Catalan separatism, in no small measure because of the rise of Vox, a new far-right party that made a splash in regional elections in Andalusia in December, when it won 12 seats in the Andalusian Parliament on a platform that combined anti-immigrant rhetoric with a hard line on the Catalonia crisis. Vox has gone as far as to call for abolishing altogether Spain’s system of regional autonomy and outlawing separatist political parties.Why would the separatists possibly want this outcome? For the simple reason that a viable path to securing Catalan independence remains elusive. Since 2011, both conservative and social democratic governments in Madrid have rejected a state-sanctioned independence referendum for Catalonia. So Catalan separatists are now banking on political victimhood as the best strategy for rebooting the independence project. To do this, they need to depict Catalonia as the victim of Madrid’s brutal oppression in the hopes that this would earn their cause international support.Carles Puigdemont, the president of Catalonia until he fled to Belgium, where he remains today, to escape prosecution from Spanish authorities for having declared Catalonia an independent republic, has been exploiting the violence around the 2017 referendum to demonstrate the lengths that Madrid will go to deny Catalans the right to self-determination. On a recent trip to the United States, Quim Torra, Mr. Puigdemont’s successor, accused the Spanish government of violating civil and political rights in Catalonia and of holding “political prisoners.” At home, Catalan separatists have framed the trial that began this month of the 12 organizers of the illegal referendum on charges of rebellion and sedition as a persecution of Catalan nationalism.But for the victimhood strategy to succeed, the separatists need a better foil in Madrid than Mr. Sánchez and his Socialist government. Rather than dialogue and compromise, the separatists appear to desire intolerance and intransigence — maybe even a dose of violence. In other words, they want a Popular Party government supported by Vox and Ciudadanos, a center-right party from Catalonia that vehemently opposes Catalan independence. Because of the fragmentation of the party system, the results of an election more than a month away are difficult to predict. But given recent polling, it is easy to imagine the Popular Party — with support from Ciudadanos and Vox — being able to oust Mr. Sánchez.The consequences of a coalition government led by the Popular Party and incorporating Vox would extend far beyond the issue of Catalonia. It would be the first time the far right made it into a Spanish government since Franco’s death, and the toll on Spanish democracy would be enormous. It could bring an assault on the hard-won rights of women, immigrants and L.G.B.T. people. It could also unleash a wave of nationalism not seen in Spain since the Franco regime, one that would undermine regional home rule not only in Catalonia, but also in other regions like the Basque Country.Enabling the rise of the far right into government would also be a betrayal of the traditional values of the Catalan nationalist movement. Since the transition to democracy, this movement has placed Catalan autonomy ahead of independence. Its progressive wing, represented by the Republican Left of Catalonia, a political party founded in the 1930s, has a proud history of standing up for the rights of women, workers and sexual minorities. The separatists also need to consider that it is far from clear that a right-wing government would bring their region any closer to independence. In fact, the result of the strategy of victimization in Catalonia could well be to diminish democracy for Spain as a whole.Omar G. Encarnación is a professor of political studies at Bard College and the author of “Democracy without Justice in Spain: The Politics of Forgetting,” among other books.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jon ParelesWhat do migrants bring with them? On a one-way trip to an unknown new life, perhaps they might pack money, documents, clothes, some small keepsakes. Invisibly and intangibly, they also carry cultural memories: the lullabies their parents sang, the dances they tried at a wedding, the best way to cook a chicken. On new territory, those memories become a link to home and also, with any luck, something to share with the neighbors.It’s the American story, repeated with countless variations for each new arrival; it’s also a hot-button subject in politics worldwide. And it’s the theme for “Migrations: The Making of America,” a citywide festival that gets into gear this weekend, with Carnegie Hall at its center along with more than 75 partner organizations around the city, including the New-York Historical Society, the Irish Arts Center, Harlem Stage, the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research, El Museo del Barrio and the Vietnam Heritage Center. The festival encompasses dance workshops, panel discussions, and walking tours of Harlem along with concerts large and small.“So many different cultures and so many different ethnicities want to tell their story,” said Clive Gillinson, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall. “It tells you something about the potency of the subject.”Carnegie’s own programs focus on three historical migrations to and within the United States: the Irish and Scottish influx in the 18th and 19th centuries; Jews arriving from Russia and Eastern Europe from the late 19th century until the 1924 National Origins Act set quotas on immigration; and the Great Migration of 6 million African-Americans from the South to northern industrial cities. British Isles immigrants brought a repertoire that seeded Appalachian and country music. The Jewish contingent brought essential songwriters to Tin Pan Alley and Broadway. And the Great Migration disseminated blues, jazz, gospel and the other glories of African-American music.When you consider that “some of the most sublime inspirational art you could ever imagine” came out of appalling situations, Mr. Gillinson said, “I think it tells you a lot about what human beings are able to do in transmuting some of the most painful and hardest things in life into something that can actually uplift everyone.”The far-reaching jazz pianist Jason Moran and the opera-trained mezzo-soprano Alicia Hall Moran, his wife, along with guests from jazz, rock, gospel and classical music, address the Great Migration in a Carnegie Hall concert on March 30 titled “Two Wings.” Its foundation, the Morans said in a phone interview, is the book “The Warmth of Other Suns” by Isabel Wilkerson, who will appear. Songs on the program like the spiritual “Two Wings” and the blues “Route 66,” buoyant as they seem, are nonetheless about escape.“The root is sheer terror,” Jason Moran said. “It’s people having to retreat, people having to hide, people having to gather what few belongings they have and do some real improvisation and go to some other city — only to get to that city and discover some other trials later on.”Jewish heritage and its American evolution will have a flagship concert on April 15. “From Shtetl to Stage: A Celebration of Yiddish Music and Culture,” produced by the author Seth Rogovoy, gathers classical musicians (the violinist Gil Shaham and the pianist Evgeny Kissin), klezmer musicians (the clarinetist David Krakauer and the trumpeter Frank London, the show’s musical director), singers and actors to explore the Yiddish theater and its extensive influence. At Zankel Hall, the klezmer clarinetist and mandolinist Andy Statman will lead his trio on March 14, and Michael Feinstein will perform “The Great American Jewish Songbook: Kern, Berlin, Arlen, Rodgers and More” on March 27.The Scots-Irish facet of the festival begins March 9 with a dedicated segment of “Live From Here,” the American Public Media radio show hosted by the eclectic mandolinist and songwriter Chris Thile. “I was a bizarre choice to host this one, seeing as I’m a Southern California boy with no detectable Scotch-Irish heritage to speak of,” Mr. Thile said by phone. (Most of his ancestry is German.) “But in another way, it makes a lot of sense, because it’s about how much influence those migrations have had on American culture and American life.”He added, “Music and the artistic benefits of an ethnically diverse society are undeniable. This country would be nothing without all of the various peoples who are here. What would we have, musically speaking, had we just kept this place all to our initial selves? To say nothing of the fact that it wasn’t ours to begin with.”On April 6 at Zankel, the festival will present the Gloaming, a quintet of Irish and American musicians who merge deeply traditional Irish fiddling and singing with daring, often luminously introspective harmonies and arrangements. To Martin Hayes, a fiddler from County Clare who founded the group, the Gloaming continues a century-long dialogue between Irish music and its American diaspora, restoring some of the subtleties that were discouraged by the limitations of early recordings and the guitar-strumming enthusiasm of the 1960s folk revival.“There is a thread of unacknowledged, deeper emotional expression that got ironed out of the music in some ways,” Mr. Hayes said. In the Gloaming’s music, “Lots of things can happen, but the only rule is that they actually amplify and develop the innate feeling that happens inside the melodic structure.”Meanwhile, the melting pot continues to simmer. The Migrations festival has embraced a series now in its fifth year at the Flushing Town Hall arts center: Global Mashups, which presents double bills of musicians from disparate traditions for an audience that comes to dance. Dance steps are taught before the performance, and after each group plays its own set, they jam together — an accelerated version of American music’s cross-pollination. “By the end of the night, you’re not a stranger any more,” said Ellen Kodadek, the executive and artistic director of Flushing Town Hall.This year’s lineup begins March 9 with the category-defying Hazmat Modine — a blues-rooted group that can swerve into New Orleans brass-band jazz, ska or klezmer — and Falu, a singer born in Mumbai who will be performing music from vintage Bollywood films and from Holi, a Hindu spring festival of renewal and forgiveness.Falu represents the 11th generation of a family of Hindustani classical musicians; she immigrated to the United States 20 years ago, and studied Western songwriting at Berklee College of Music. Her Indian-rooted children’s album, “Falu’s Bazaar,” was a nominee at the most recent Grammy Awards. “My purpose in making ‘Falu’s Bazaar’ was to keep the tradition living,” she said. “To give everybody who has immigrated, who has a different culture to latch onto, who has some story to tell, to give validation that your song matters, your story matters.”She has no qualms about the cross-cultural jam with Hazmat Modine. “Music is the most unifying power,” she said. “We’re going to bring people together.”Migrations: The Making of AmericaAt various locations from March 8 through May 25; carnegiehall.org/migrations.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — For months, President Trump has been railing about the urgent need for a wall to protect against what he calls “an invasion” of illegal immigrants flooding across the southwestern border. But he has also been delivering another message: “We need workers,” he told a group of activists recently.In other words, he wants more immigrants.“I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally,” Mr. Trump ad-libbed last month during his State of the Union address.Comments like those from the president have ignited furious criticism from his hard-line, anti-immigrant supporters who accuse him of caving to demands for cheap foreign labor from corporations, establishment Republicans and big donors while abandoning his election promise to protect his working-class supporters from the effects of globalism.“This is clearly a betrayal of what immigration hawks hoped the Trump administration would be for,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates cutting legal immigration by more than half. He warned that Mr. Trump was in danger of being “not even that different from a conventional Republican.”Breitbart News, a conservative website that promotes anti-immigrant messaging, published on Thursday the latest in a series of articles attacking Mr. Trump for catering to big business at the expense of the Americans who put him in the Oval Office. “Trump Requests ‘More’ Foreign Workers as Southern Border Gets Overrun,” the site blared on its home page.“That Mr. Trump would advance the interests of the global elite ahead of our citizens would be a tragic reversal on any day,” Lou Dobbs, the Fox Business Network host, said in a televised rant against the president on Wednesday evening. “The White House has simply lost its way.”Corporations and influential corporate conservatives such as Charles G. Koch and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have long urged the president to help them recruit the talent they need by expanding the number of workers who can enter the United States from other countries.That has become more urgent as the economy has improved and as declining unemployment has made it harder for companies to find workers. To assuage their concerns, Mr. Trump has increasingly tailored his immigration talking points to cater to the needs of business executives like those who attended a business round table on Wednesday at the White House.“We’re going to have a lot of people coming into the country. We want a lot of people coming in. And we need it,” Mr. Trump said as he sat next to Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, and other executives. “We want to have the companies grow, and the only way they’re going to grow is if we give them the workers, and the only way we’re going to have the workers is to do exactly what we’re doing.”But that message runs counter to the hard-line immigration image that Mr. Trump has carefully nurtured — most recently by shutting the government down for 35 days in a failed attempt to pressure Congress to fund a wall on the Mexican border.Mr. Trump won the White House in no small part by embracing anti-immigrant messaging that tapped into the economic fears of blue-collar workers upset about losing their jobs to foreign workers. Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, he attacked undocumented immigrants as “rapists and murderers” and called for a “big, beautiful wall” along the border with Mexico.Since becoming president, Mr. Trump has aggressively sought to crack down on illegal border crossings, increase deportations, cut the number of refugees allowed into the United States and make it harder for migrants to claim asylum. He has complained about drug dealers, gangs and members of Central American caravans pouring across the border. And last summer, his administration separated thousands of migrant children from their parents in an effort to deter Central American families from trying to seek refuge in the United States.The harsh record — and comments by Mr. Trump that disparaged African nations in vulgar terms and suggested that Haitian immigrants “all have AIDS” — has earned him the enmity of Democrats and immigration activists, who call him a racist president.It is unclear whether Mr. Trump will follow through on his recent, pro-business messaging. Many of the president’s aides — including Stephen Miller, his top immigration adviser in the White House — agree with the hard-line activists about the need to lower legal immigration.In 2017, Mr. Trump endorsed the Raise Act, a Republican Senate bill that would reduce legal immigration by as much as 50 percent. And the administration is currently considering a proposal to cut immigration by denying work authorizations, known as H-4 permits, to almost 100,000 spouses of immigrants who are brought in by companies to work legally in the United States.But even so, some of the nation’s most hard-line anti-immigration activists have become increasingly nervous that Mr. Trump might waver on their primary concern — the need to shrink the number of immigrants who enter the United States each year, currently 1.1 million.They argue that tight labor markets make it exactly the wrong time to allow more foreign workers to compete with Americans. Chris Chmielenski, the deputy director of NumbersUSA, which lobbies for lower legal immigration, said companies should be pressured to hire more Americans instead.“Anything we do now to bring in more foreign workers could actually reverse some of the economic gains over the last four years,” Mr. Chmielenski said. “We’re absolutely concerned. We feel this isn’t how he ran on the issue.”Last week, in an effort to communicate that message directly to Mr. Trump, NumbersUSA began airing an ad on Fox News Channel in the hopes that the president would get the message that his supporters do not want to let in more than one million immigrants each year.“The majority of voters say the number should be cut to 500,000 or less,” the ad said. “Americans want less immigration.”Mr. Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said that companies that no longer have access to foreign workers would have no choice but to turn to Americans who are still struggling to find work: people with disabilities, teenagers, older people and even former convicts.He also said that modest increases in wages for workers would evaporate if companies were allowed to simply tap an unlimited pool of lower-paid workers from other countries.“If you want wages to go up,” Mr. Krikorian said, “you don’t import more foreign labor.”Business groups dispute that analysis. They argue that immigration expands the amount of business activity in the United States, adding jobs and increasing wages for the vast majority of American workers.“Our country has benefited tremendously from welcoming people who have contributed to our economy, our communities, across the board,” said James Davis, a spokesman for the Koch network. “We want to welcome in everyone who wants to contribute to our society. We want to see more legal immigration.”Todd Schulte, the president of FWD.us, a pro-immigration advocacy group that started with backing from Mark Zuckerberg, a founder of Facebook, said that “immigrants and immigration increase economic growth, they increase economic productivity and they increase wages for the overwhelming number of native-born Americans.”Mr. Schulte, whose group has been highly critical of Mr. Trump’s anti-immigrant messaging and policies, welcomed the president’s recognition that legal immigration is a positive thing for the United States’ economy.But he cautioned that Mr. Trump must be measured by his actions, not his words. He called on the president to halt the effort to deny the H-4 work permits to immigrant spouses.“He should stop trying to revoke the H-4 rule,” Mr. Schulte said. “Increasing legal immigration would help native-born Americans. Unfortunately, the record has been one bent on cutting overall immigration levels.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Porochista KhakpourELSEWHERE, HOME By Leila AboulelaIf literary realism attempts to hold a mirror to the world, then Leila Aboulela’s “Elsewhere, Home” is an especially vivid reflection in a pond, as accurate as glass’s gaze but rippled to capture life as a thing shivering and fluid even when seemingly still.Born in Cairo, Aboulela grew up in Sudan and is now living in Scotland. “Elsewhere, Home” encompasses some of her earliest work from the late ’90s through to her most recent, and 11 out of the 13 entries have been published before. And yet there is a freshness here, in part due to the scarcity of Muslim European voices in America.But the force of Aboulela’s writing exceeds its representational significance: She animates so many well-rounded characters who not only honor, but also dare to challenge, the cultures they come from. There are no simple bad-good, European-Muslim dichotomies here. Each individual portrait — and the book operates best as a study in portraiture — is complex, but not gratuitously so. These intricacies of bicultural families and friendships carry a delicate strength that doesn’t just resemble life, it is life, for readers who believe more in the shifting pond reflection than in the static mirror image.One marvels at a sort of uniformity in this quiet collection that transcends theme, setting, subject. Critics sometimes speak of writers as having “found their voices,” but this book is a testament to one who’s always had hers. Moving gracefully between scenes, that consistent voice familiarizes us with not just the characters, but the author herself.Tales of immigrants are not scarce in the United States, but we Americans nevertheless maintain our shallow concept of their experiences — particularly those of Muslim immigrants in Europe. Khartoum, Cairo, Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Abu Dhabi, London: This book’s diversity of places and perspectives collectively expands, without fanfare, on all the usual tropes of identity. Ask Jeeves and the Kindle, along with casual references to global and regional regime shifts, are its only markers of time. The collection’s final story achieves an almost absolute universality. In “Pages of Fruit,” the narrator traces her decades of admiration for a female writer: “This was the first time I recognized myself in fiction,” she imagines herself saying to the author. “In your work I saw my country, my values and the social circles I grew up in.” Despite the story’s specificities both comic and tragic, its themes of the uniting influence of literature will resonate with anyone, anywhere. What is Sudanese and what is Scottish become almost weirdly incidental in Aboulela’s consistent, confident directness. We believe everything.Yet nothing is diluted or compromised in the coalescence; somehow Aboulela manages to create this tapestry devoid of clichés. Her characters are as real and conflicted as we are — critical and defensive of their faiths, trapped and liberated by their ethnicities, constantly longing for home even when resisting its complicated comforts.It is in the handful of first-person stories that Aboulela’s prose shines brightest: “I’m floppy without him,” a newly pregnant woman says of her husband in “Expecting to Give.” In “Colored Lights,” a BBC employee mourns the untimely death of his brother Taha: “When he died, my mind bent a little and has never straightened since.” Her expressions are both novel and yet poignantly relatable.It’s high time for Aboulela, who’s won Britain’s Caine Prize for African Writing and Scotland’s Saltire Literary Award, to gather her accolades in this country as well. The editor John Freeman has called her “one of the best short story writers alive,” and this is one blurb that’s no exaggeration. “Elsewhere, Home” is a perfect introduction to a writer whose fiction doesn’t stray too far from home — she has a lot in common with her Muslim, Cairo-born, Khartoum-raised, Aberdeen-transplant characters — while still embracing a multiplicity of merging, clashing worlds. Hers is the first collection I’ve read since James Joyce’s “Dubliners” that reminded me of the life-changing power of furiously honest realism.The headline with an earlier version of this review misstated the author’s publishing history. Previous books by Leila Aboulela have appeared in the United States; “Elsewhere, Home” is not her American debut.Porochista Khakpour is the author of two novels and, most recently, the memoir “Sick.”ELSEWHERE, HOME By Leila Aboulela 217 pp. Black Cat. Paper, $16AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mitch SmithHAMTRAMCK, Mich. — It was 5:45 a.m. and 10 degrees — before the sunrise, before the first call to prayer sounded from the city’s mosques — and already the Fat Tuesday line had spilled out the bakery’s doors, onto the street, past the pizzeria, around the corner.The reward at the end of the frigid wait: a box of paczki (pronounced “PAWN-chkee”), the doughy Polish pastries filled with custard or fruit or, for the less tradition-bound, stuffed with Cocoa Puffs cereal.Paczki Day has been a pre-Lent pastime in Hamtramck for generations, dating back to when most residents were from Polish families who came to this roughly two-square-mile enclave, which is almost completely encircled by Detroit, seeking jobs in the auto industry and a place to speak their native language.Hamtramck’s transformation in recent decades is well documented and obvious. Storefronts now display signs in Arabic or Bengali. A main road was given an honorary name, “Bangladesh Avenue.” And after the 2015 election, Hamtramck’s City Council became the country’s first with a Muslim majority, a milestone that drew unwanted media attention and critical social media posts from ex-residents who left decades ago.Through all the change, Paczki Day has only grown in visibility, becoming an all-day event (one famous bakery opens at 3 a.m.) during which local businesses serve paczki burgers and liquor-infused “paczki bombs.” Even a Yemeni-owned halal grocery store, which was formerly a Polish market, sells the pastries.For those who never moved away from Hamtramck (pronounced “Ham-tram-ick”), and for residents who have arrived more recently, the day has become far more than a chance to indulge in sweets before the Christian Lenten season. Paczki Day, they say, is also a tangible counterpoint to depictions of a city divided beyond reconciliation or changed beyond recognition.“If folks couldn’t deal with it, they’ve left for the suburbs by now,” said Mayor Karen Majewski, who is Polish-American, as every other mayor of the city has been. She added: “People complain sometimes. In the same breath, they’ll say that they’ll get along with their neighbors. I really don’t worry about it.”Hamtramck’s transition from a place with a Polish-language radio station to one where hijabs are displayed in store windows played out in the national eye, starting in 2004 when a mosque received permission to broadcast the call to prayer over loudspeakers. Ms. Majewski, a Democrat who at the time was a councilwoman, pushed for the approval.She said she was shocked when some residents objected, and when news crews started arriving from around the country to tell the story. As the call to prayer became part of the city’s soundtrack, Hamtramck’s Muslim residents — who came from different countries with distinct languages, cultures and cuisines — said the moment was a turning point.“It made people feel a sense of home, a sense of ‘you belong,’” said Anam Miah, now the mayor pro tem, who emigrated from Bangladesh as a boy in the late 1980s.Over more than three decades, demographic shifts have been pronounced. New immigrants arrived, especially from Bangladesh and Yemen. Polish people moved away. And as downtown Detroit boomed in the last several years, young adults of many backgrounds moved in, seeking cheaper housing and bringing hip coffee shops with them.By 2017, only about 7 percent of residents claimed Polish ancestry, according to the Census Bureau, though visitors can still tour the Polish Art Center, eat pierogi at the Polonia restaurant or watch the paczki-eating contest at the Polish Legion of American Veterans post, where the winning competitor on Tuesday wolfed down eight-and-one-quarter pastries. (In 2015, the winner ate 23.)“It’s a fascinating theater of life here,” said Greg Kowalski, 68, a Polish-American who remained in Hamtramck and helps run the local museum, where newly painted murals depict the city’s immigrant groups, from the Poles and Ukrainians of the early and mid-20th century to the Bosnians, Yemenis and Bangladeshis of more recent decades.Cultural misunderstandings and clashes have cropped up over the years. Some residents complained about other groups’ trash disposal practices, or the volume of a nearby mosque’s call to prayer, or what they say is a dearth of Muslim city workers.But the more pervasive grievance, the one that seems to cut across all Hamtramck’s varied groups, is frustration with how the city is perceived and portrayed from the outside.“The only thing that really, really hurts me,” said Naz Huda, 36, who emigrated from Bangladesh, is when people say Hamtramck is “a terrorist city or it’s a Muslim-run city. I hate that. They’re Americans. They won elections.”The election of a majority-Muslim City Council, which several people in Hamtramck said they were unaware of until reporters brought it to their attention, brought a fresh round of global attention to the city.The Washington Post visited town. So did reporters from several European countries. And so did Fox News, which in 2016 published a headline that said, incorrectly, that Hamtramck was “now almost a completely Muslim community.”“One quick way to judge assimilation is burqas. Did you see a lot of burqas on the street?” a Fox host asked a reporter, referring to the full-body garment worn by some Muslim women. “We did see them, absolutely,” the reporter responded.Ed Wolyniec, 60, a Polish-American who grew up in Hamtramck and moved back a few years ago, said he had childhood acquaintances who left long ago and now spoke in ominous terms about the city’s new leadership.“It’s obvious that there’s not Shariah law,” said Mr. Wolyniec, citing an annual street festival featuring beer and pork sausages, neither of which are consumed by devout Muslims.Without question, Hamtramck has its problems. Half of its 22,000 residents live in poverty, according to the Census Bureau. Municipal finances are a perpetual mess. And the General Motors plant that straddles the city’s border is scheduled to close in January, meaning a major loss in tax revenue in a place where government services have been stretched so thin that frustrated volunteers sometimes fill potholes.But around Paczki Day, when most every parking spot was claimed and polka music emanated from bars, there was a sense of optimism, too. Those who have stayed said they had learned to live together, to get along, to see the parallels in the stories of the Polish immigrants who came decades ago and those of the newer arrivals from the Middle East and Asia.“I haven’t seen Hamtramck’s identity really change in 100 years,” said Ms. Majewski. “We’re an immigrant city.”She added, “I don’t think that that’s going to change. I think just the balance and the numbers are going to change.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHow much does Nancy Pelosi have to worry about a left-center split?By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.There is a larger story behind the bitterness expressed inside the House Democratic caucus last week after 26 moderate Democratic members defied the leadership to support a Republican proposal to require reporting undocumented immigrants who try to buy guns to immigration authorities.Two key wings of the congressional Democratic Party have divergent political interests — on one hand the ascendant progressives led by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, many of whom have proudly declared themselves democratic socialists, and on the other the band of moderates who flipped most of the 41 districts that went from red to blue in November.The progressives are committed to an ambitious and expensive set of proposals, including a Green New Deal and Medicare for All, policies they have promised to promote unrelentingly.This agenda, and the attention it gets, has put the fear of defeat in 2020 front and center in the minds of newly elected House moderates. They see their progressive colleagues shaping an image of a Democratic House leaning so far to the left that it endangers the future of the current House majority.A story published Feb. 24 by my Times colleagues Catie Edmondson and Emily Cochrane described the agony of the moderate wing.At a town hall last month in a suburb of Salt Lake City, Ben McAdams, one of the moderate freshman Democrats, faced constituents questioning him about the “socialism” and “anti-Semitism” they had read about. “How long do you intend to ride that train with those people?” one voter asked. Another wondered whether McAdams would be “corrupted” by his service in Congress.McAdams’ answer captured the bind he and other centrists find themselves in:“There have been some articles about this, a little bit of tension on the Democratic side: Are we going to veer to the far left or are we going to stay in the center? I don’t know where the Democratic Party will go, but I tell you what, I will stay in the center. People are going to have to take it or leave it.”The question for McAdams and others is, will such declarations of independence insulate them on Election Day? Some evidence suggests that they will not.Let’s first examine the specific issue that brought intraparty Democratic tension between moderates and progressives to a boil: a seemingly bland parliamentary gambit called a “motion to recommit” — known in Congressional jargon as an M.T.R.Under House rules, the motion to recommit is one of the few mechanisms granted to the out-of-power party to shape legislation.“Controlling the Congressional agenda really is the sine qua non of a successful majority party,” Sarah Binder, a political scientist at George Washington University and a senior fellow at Brookings, told me.If there is one thing that sets Nancy Pelosi apart from other Democratic speakers, it is her ability to maintain control of the Democratic majority on key votes.It is no wonder, then, that she was outraged when these 26 moderate Democrats supported a Republican motion to recommit on Feb. 27 — explicitly designed to thwart progressive Democrats who adamantly oppose reporting undocumented immigrants to authorities. To Pelosi, the motion was an aggressive attempt on the part of House Republicans to undermine her leadership, and moderate Democratic members who supported it were seeking political cover at her expense.“We are either a team or we’re not, and we have to make that decision,” she declared at the Democratic caucus meeting. “This is not a day at the beach. This is the Congress of the United States.”In recent decades, “the motion to recommit has been weaponized,” Tom Mann, a senior fellow at Brookings, wrote me by email. “Like almost every effort on the floor by the minority party in the face of majority control of the agenda in the majoritarian House, it is an electoral weapon used to divide and weaken the majority.”Jason Roberts, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina, provided a brief history of the motion in an email. “It was made into a minority right in 1909. It did not really become controversial until the 1970s. Before then, most bills were considered under open rules” that allowed anyone from either party to offer amendments. In the 1970s, Roberts explained, the Democratic majority “began using more restrictive rules that limited or closed off amending opportunities.” This left Republicans with only one alternative to force a vote on an amendment: the motion to recommit.Both parties have made considerable use of the motion when in the minority, but historical analysis demonstrates that it has been a far more effective tool for Republicans than for Democrats.From 1995 to 2006, according to Roberts, Democrats, then in the minority, used it 262 times — but successfully only 1.1 percent of the time. In contrast, from 2007 through 2010, Republicans, then in the minority, forced votes on 181 motions to recommit and won 21.5 percent. Then, from 2011 through 2018, the Democratic minority offered 380 motions to recommit and every one of them failed in the face of united Republican opposition.During the current session of Congress, Republicans successfully won approval of a motion to recommit on legislation requiring universal background checks on all gun sales, including those conducted privately and at gun shows.The motion — passed with the support of the 26 Democratic defectors who infuriated Pelosi — amended the legislation to require notification of Immigration and Customs Enforcement when an undocumented immigrant fails a background check.Almost all of the 26 Democrats who joined Republicans to support the motion represent moderate constituencies, many of which had, until recently, been held by Republicans. Twenty three are on the 2020 National Republican Congressional Committee target list.There are two key factors that explain why Republicans in the House have been far more successful than Democrats in using the motion to recommit to divide the opposition.The first is that the concentration of Democratic voters in urban districts means that in order to win and maintain a House majority, Democrats must be victorious in highly competitive districts, many of which tilt to the right.These Democrats, in turn, are the ones who are the most cross-pressured between loyalty to the leadership and fear of losing support from center-right constituents.“There are more Democrats representing Republican-leaning districts than there are Republicans representing Democratic-leaning districts,” Frances Lee, a political scientist at the University of Maryland, wrote me in an email.In 2018, she continued, “Democrats carried a larger share of districts where members have to be careful not to antagonize their Republican-leaning constituents.”The second reason Republicans rarely provide even token support for Democratic motions to recommit is straightforward: a vast array of local and national conservative media is more than willing to denounce a turncoat. And anyone viewed as disloyal to the Republican Party is likely to face a primary challenger.Matthew Green, a political scientist at Catholic University, has studied the use of motions to recommit and describes the partisan difference as follows:“First, Democrats are more ideologically diverse than Republicans. Second, Democratic Party leaders are more divided on strategy than Republicans.”This is a serious problem, Green continued, “especially if Democrats want to maintain their control of the legislative agenda and keep peace in the family.”In the past, moderate and conservative Democrats sought to separate themselves from the more liberal national party by building a personal brand that their local voters would recognize. This worked when Tip O’Neill’s famous adage, “All politics is local,” was an effective principle in congressional elections.“Old-timers like me remember the 40-year span during which Democrats maintained control of the House through a coalition of liberals, moderates and even a few conservatives,” Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, recalled in an email. “They did so by tolerating defections if that was the price of re-election: ‘Vote your district first’.” Liberals still “have to be reminded that there are simply not enough liberals out there to form a majority,” Jacobson added.The problem now is that the politics of congressional elections are no longer local. In the years since O’Neill retired as speaker in 1987, American politics have become nationalized.If a conservative or moderate Democrat is running in a Republican-leaning district, he or she must persuade a segment of the electorate to split their tickets, to vote Republican for president, for example, and vote Democrat for the House.The reality is that split ticket voting is steadily disappearing as more and more voters cast uniformly partisan ballots.The accompanying chart, a version of which appeared in a paper by Alan Abramowitz and Steven Webster, political scientists at Emory and Washington University in St. Louis, “Negative Partisanship: Why Americans Dislike Parties But Behave Like Rabid Partisans,” demonstrates this trend.It shows that the percentage of voters splitting their tickets has fallen from 41.3 percent in 1980 to just over 14.3 percent in 2016.Percentage who voted straight ticket vs. split in presidential election years.100% OF VOTERS86%85%Straightticket806059%41%40Splitticket2015%14%’52’60’68’76’84’92’00’08’16100% OF VOTERS86%85%Straight ticket806059%41%40Split ticket2015%14%’52’60’68’76’84’92’00’08’16By The New York Times | Source: Steven W. Webster, Washington University in St. LouisThe result is that the number of Democrats and Republicans representing districts that lean to the opposite party has fallen from 132 in 1974 to fewer than 23 in 2018, as the second chart shows. (A version of this chart originally illustrated in a paper by Gary Jacobson, “Donald Trump and the 2018 Midterm Elections.”)Number of House candidates who won in districts that lean toward the opposite party. Data for 1962 and 1966 not available.120HOUSE SEATS90No Republicans won in Democratic-leaning districts in the last election.60Democrats30Republicans'52'60'70'80'90'00'10'18120HOUSE SEATS90No Republicans won in Democratic-leaning districts in the last election.60Democrats30Republicans'52'60'70'80'90'00'10'18By The New York Times | Source: Gary C. Jacobson, University of California, San DiegoThe near elimination of cross-party districts has, in turn, been particularly harmful to Democrats, who held roughly 114 of these districts in 1974, but only 23 in 2018.More specifically, these trends point to the consistent re-election difficulties faced by both Democrats and Republicans who are swept into office during wave elections like 1994, 2010 and 2014 (Republican) and 2006 and 2018 (Democratic). Their prospects are governed by the accounting principle “last in, first out.”All of which leads to the very real problem facing the House Democratic Majority. Tom Mann puts it this way:The nationalization of politics, the rise of intense negative partisanship, and the demise of split-ticket voting mean that the electoral fate of Democrats representing marginal districts now depends much more on the party brand than the candidate brand.E. J. Dionne, Jr., my longtime colleague at The Washington Post, wrote earlier this week that House Democrats will eventually resolve the problem of Republican motions to recommitby working out a better disciplined system of granting a limited number of “free passes" on especially tough votes while preventing wholesale defections.In Mann’s view, efforts by moderate Democrats to create an identity separate from their party by voting against their leadership will likely prove futile, because “Republicans will always attack them as liberals however they vote on these gotcha procedural motions.” In that light, maintaining party cohesion becomes more important:The keys to holding and increasing their 2018 gains in 2020 lies in the relative standing and unity of their party relative to Trump and his Republican enablers and the nomination of a presidential candidate who can keep the enthusiasm of the resistance alive and not scare away weak partisans and independents with outlandish policy proposals.Frances Lee raised another problem for moderate Democrats going into the 2020 elections:The resurgent far left of the party has received media attention out of proportion to its share of the party. The reason Democrats have a majority in the 116th Congress is that they carried so many suburban seats. These suburban members are not going to be blazing the trail for social democracy! But they get very little national media attention compared to the more ideologically strident members.David Hopkins, a political scientist at Boston College, shares Lee’s view:We’re also in a moment when a fair amount of news coverage is suggesting to the American public that the Democratic Party is in the midst of a socialist revolution that is pulling it sharply to the ideological left. The truth is that most newly-elected Democrats in Congress resemble Mikie Sherrill and Abigail Spanberger much more than they do Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez or Rashida Tlaib, but that isn’t the message that reporters and commentators are currently transmitting to their readers and viewers.Both Sherrill and Spanberger are moderates.A report by the centrist Democratic think tank Third Way demonstrates the crucial role moderate Democrats played in the 2018 takeover of the House.Third Way examined the Democratic victors in seats that had previously been held by Republicans — the victories that gave Democrats the majority — and found that none of them were part of or endorsed by the progressive mobilization led by the Justice Democrats, Brand New Congress and Our Revolution. In contrast, 33 of the House candidates endorsed by the moderate New Dem PAC won in districts that had been represented by Republicans.The Third Way report, in combination with the comments from Mann, Lee and Hopkins, suggests that House Democratic strategists — and Democrats generally — should find ways to counter the voices on the party’s left. Such an effort, however, could easily result in the alienation of the progressive wing that has brought grass roots energy to the fore, energy that would be critical to a 2020 Democratic presidential victory, as well as to House or Senate victories in battleground states across the county.The reality is that the Democratic Party is a diverse entity, racially, ethnically and ideologically. It is burdened — some would say blessed — with the problems of varied, often conflicting, interests. The struggle to come to terms with these tensions is constant and inescapable. Even shared hostility to President Trump and his Republican Party will not paper over the conflicts.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Emily S. RuebImmigrant rights advocates and organizers protesting the Trump administration’s policies celebrated a victory this week after JPMorgan Chase & Company said it would no longer finance private operators of prisons and detention centers.As the administration has stepped up efforts to detain undocumented migrants, privately run prisons have become the government’s default detention centers for them, despite reports questioning the facilities’ safety. In addition to securing lucrative government contracts, these private companies have also borrowed money from large banks.A spokesman for JPMorgan Chase & Company, Andrew Gray, said on Tuesday the company had “a robust and well established process to evaluate the sectors that we serve.”“As part of this process,” he said, “we will no longer bank the private prison industry.”Mr. Gray did not immediately respond to a question about whether the decision was related to public pressure.Last year, two of the country’s largest private prison companies, CoreCivic and GEO Group, borrowed about $1.8 billion from several banks, including JPMorgan Chase, Matthew Toole, deals intelligence director at Refinitiv, said on Wednesday. Prison finance represents a small portion of the bank’s overall business, according to Reuters.While facilities operated by private companies house about 9 percent of the country’s prison population, they hold about three-quarters of immigrant detainees.Ana Maria Archila is the co-executive director for the Center for Popular Democracy, a national network of community organizations and individuals that has organized public protests at the bank’s headquarters, at annual meetings and outside the bank’s chief executive’s home in Manhattan.In an interview on Tuesday, she said the bank became a focus for its role in profiting from “the caging of humans,” which she described as a “morally bankrupt act.”“I am reminded that when we dare to protest, even when it seems impossible, that we actually lift up the veil on things that were not visible,” said Ms. Archila.Ms. Archila said the protests had been part of a broader effort by activists to call out corporate entities who they see as “legitimizing” the Trump administration’s policies, including the aggressive enforcement of immigration policies and the forcible separation of immigrant children from their parents at the border.While testifying to Congress on Wednesday, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, was defiant in the face of criticism over the department’s treatment of migrant families at the border, especially over the separation of children from their parents. Ms. Nielsen also encouraged lawmakers to pass legislation that would allow the indefinite detention of families and to more easily turn back claims of asylum by migrants from Central America.Representatives for the prison companies expressed frustration with JPMorgan Chase’s decision and what they saw as a weaponization of political will.“JP Morgan has served an important role in creating better conditions for inmates entrusted in our care,” Rodney E. King, a spokesman for CoreCivic, said on Tuesday.Mr. King added that the company’s immigration facilities did not provide housing for children who weren’t under the supervision of a parent.“These divestment efforts are politically motivated and based on a deliberate mischaracterization of our role as a long-standing service provider to the government,” he said.Emily Covington, a spokeswoman for the GEO Group, which operates dozens of about 130 dozens of correctional, detention and community re-entry sites in the United States, said Tuesday that the company had never managed facilities that house unaccompanied minors, including those who may have been separated from their parents.Several activists and politicians embraced the news, including New York City’s comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, who called the development “huge.”On Valentine’s Day this year, an immigrants rights group, Make the Road New York, sent a mariachi band and protesters with “Break Up With Prisons” signs to the townhouse of JPMorgan Chase & Company’s chief executive, Jamie Dimon.“If we come together and are diligent,” Javier H. Valdés, the group’s co-executive director, said Tuesday, to “build strong coalitions and work with powerful allies, we can actually win and help shift the narrative of enforcement in this country.”Ms. Archila, one of several protesters arrested on charges of blocking the entrance to the bank’s headquarters in Manhattan in May 2017, said targeting the financial services industry was a new frontier in the campaign for immigrants’ rights.“In some ways, the Trump era is one of fighting against incredible odds, to protect our communities, to protect ourselves, to protect each other,” she said.Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTrump’s cruel separation of immigrant families continued after he declared he was ending the practice.By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistPresident Trump claimed last June to have ended the practice of separating immigrant families at the southern border. “We are going to keep the families together,” he declared from the Oval Office.Mr. President, meet Clemente and his daughter Wendy, both fleeing gang violence in Guatemala. Your administration separated them six months ago and kept them apart.These family separations, continuing but at a lower level than before, are an element of the real “emergency” at the border — the one also involving physical and sexual abuse of immigrant children in U.S. custody and systematic deception from Washington.The paradox is that Trump’s cruel policy to deter desperate immigrants appears counterproductive; apparently the furor it provoked drew attention to the possibility of migration. The result is a surge of Central American families traveling to the United States, with the number crossing the border far higher than a year earlier.[Follow Nicholas Kristof as he travels around the United States and the world, shedding light on crises and hailing unsung heroes. For a behind-the-scenes look at Nick’s gritty journalism, sign up for his newsletter.]Clemente, 34, is from a small Guatemalan village. He doesn’t want to use his last name because of all he has been through at the hands of the U.S. government. There is no way to verify parts of his story, but individuals who work with immigrants say it rings true.A gang in Guatemala murdered his cousin, and last year gangsters stabbed Clemente’s father and sent warnings to Clemente: “It’s now your turn.”Terrified, Clemente fled with his eldest daughter, Wendy, then 15, leaving his wife and five other, younger children, whom he did not believe the gang would target. He feared that the gang would abduct Wendy, an excellent student who loves books, and he could not bear that thought.They crossed Mexico without serious incident, then waded across the Rio Grande and turned themselves in to Border Patrol officers, requesting asylum. That was Aug. 20, two months after Trump said he had ended the family separation policy. But officials promptly separated Clemente and Wendy.Clemente was put in a “hielera,” or ice box, notorious detention rooms predating Trump that are kept cold. Clemente, wet from the river crossing, was soon freezing as well as hungry and weak because he had given his food to Wendy. “As a dad, the last thing you want is for your daughter to suffer,” he explained simply. “So I gave everything to her.”In this frail state, he caught pneumonia and passed out. Many hours went by before he was taken to a hospital, unconscious and gravely ill. Inadequate health care in detention centers is common, and two migrant children died in December in Border Patrol custody.“I woke up in the hospital, and I didn’t know where I was,” Clemente told me. “It was a nightmare. My first question was, ‘Where’s my daughter?’” After he was released from the hospital and later from detention, he found himself on the streets of Brownsville, Tex.“He was distraught and he was crying,” recalled Sergio Cordova, a volunteer in Brownsville who does heroic work with immigrants, funded by donations, and discovered Clemente at the bus station. “I gave him a hug and he started saying he can’t find his daughter, he doesn’t know where his daughter is.”Eventually, Clemente discovered that she was in a shelter. She was allowed to telephone him once a week, but not return to his care; his voice broke as he described her as “an angel from God.”Immigration is a complicated challenge, but ripping families apart isn’t the solution. Perhaps the best approach is to help improve security in Central America so that people like Clemente need not flee. Some anti-gang initiatives there have been very successful in reducing murder rates that drive migration.“If it were peaceful, I’d like to be back there where I grew up,” said Clemente, who received help from Immigrant Families Together in his quest to reunite with his daughter. “I’d love to be in the land where I was born.”The Texas Civil Rights Project found that at least 272 adults were separated from a child family member in the six months after Trump supposedly ended family separation. The youngest to be separated was an 8-month-old girl taken from her mother.Officials are less likely now to separate parents from children, but they continue to separate grandparents from grandchildren, siblings from siblings. The day I spoke with Cordova, the volunteer, he was helping two brothers from Honduras who had no other family left: Junior, 21, had raised Andy, 7.When gang members brutally beat up Junior for refusing to sell drugs for them, he fled with Andy to the United States — and officials separated them on arrival six months ago. So little Andy is now in a shelter, apart from the only person who has loved and protected him.“I see this all the time,” Cordova told me. “They cry with me, I cry with them.”Finally, there was a break in Clemente’s case. On Wednesday night, the authorities released Wendy to him. After six months apart, they had a teary reunion.“I thought I might never get her back again,” Clemente said. “I am very thankful.”So, yes, President Trump, you’re right that there’s an emergency at the border. It’s a humanitarian crisis of family separation that you helped create.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.  @NickKristof • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael WinesThe Census Bureau will tap Department of Homeland Security files on millions of immigrants, including noncitizens, as part of its data collection for the 2020 census, bureau officials said Thursday. The move comes as the Trump administration faces court challenges to its efforts to add a citizenship question to the next head count.The Homeland Security files would include information on immigrants’ citizenship status, addresses and birth dates, and Social Security numbers.Experts and analysts outside the agency said the request for data on noncitizens, first reported by The Associated Press, had a number of plausible explanations — and did not necessarily mean the administration was trying to sidestep recent judicial rulings barring the citizenship question.In fact the rulings have criticized the Commerce Department, which oversees the Census Bureau, for disregarding a federal law requiring officials to determine whether it can obtain information on noncitizens from federal files — before it burdens citizens with an additional question on census forms.During internal deliberations over adding a citizenship question to the 2020 head count, Census Bureau analysts told Commerce Secretary Wilbur L. Ross Jr. that the question was unnecessary because existing federal files — including those in Homeland Security — could provide the same information more accurately and cheaply.The Census Bureau said in a statement that it had not gathered data on noncitizens in recent censuses, but added that the new agreement with Homeland Security was neither unusual nor cause for concern.The agency said that it routinely supplemented its economic and population surveys with personal files from other federal agencies like the Social Security Administration and the Internal Revenue Service, and that is required to strip all identifiable personal information from data it gathers before sharing statistics with the public or the rest of the government. Failure to do so is a federal crime.The administration’s attempt to add the citizenship question had another setback on Wednesday when a second federal judge barred the addition of the question, ruling that the administration ignored both federal law and the Constitution in its zeal to obtain information on noncitizens.A final decision on whether the census can include the citizenship question now rests with the Supreme Court, which has set arguments on the issue for April.Most analysts already believe that concerns about the proposed citizenship question will depress the response to the 2020 census among foreign-born residents. That, in turn, could skew the distribution of hundreds of billions of dollars in federal funds that are allotted based on population figures, as well as the reapportionment of congressional and state political districts in 2021.On Thursday, critics said the agreement with Homeland Security would heighten fears among noncitizens and even legal immigrants that the administration was trying to sidestep such rulings and build a database of foreigners that could be used for prosecutions and deportations.But they acknowledged that those fears are overblown. Federal law prohibits the Census Bureau from cooperating on such a venture, and the bureau’s own rigid tradition of nonpartisan service would likely incite a revolt were it ordered to.The Census Bureau “is clearly in an uncomfortable situation,” said Andrew Reamer, a George Washington University research professor who closely follows Census Bureau data collection. “But in my experience, it would never initiate on its own a data request to get around a court order.”At the same time, he and other experts said, the fears were predictable, given that the Commerce Department has yet to offer a credible explanation as to why it wants to collect census data on noncitizens.Federal courts in California and New York have both ruled that the official reason — that the Justice Department needs better data to enforce voting-rights laws — is a pretext for some other undisclosed objective.“It’s understandable that it’s alarming,” said Terri Ann Lowenthal, a consultant on census issues who has advised groups that oppose the citizenship question. “Given the anti-immigration policies of the administration, people who are fearful for their security and their status would see this as another possible effort to harm them.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byletterA reader urges political parties to focus on shared human problems.To the Editor:I was disturbed to read about the Democrats’ internal deliberations regarding whether to focus on Midwestern, primarily white, Americans or on more diverse populations, including immigrants and people of color (“Different Paths for Democrats to Win in 2020,” front page, Feb. 26).I am a liberal Democrat, but it is obvious to me that as long as political parties choose whose issues they will attend to and whose suffering they will address, political division will only persist and worsen. Human problems, like health care, education costs and paying our bills, are universal, and political parties need to figure out how to hear and attend to everyone’s concerns. It really shouldn’t be that difficult.Elaine EdelmanEast Brunswick, N.J.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byletterA reader argues that it would be a hardship for the disadvantaged.To the Editor:Re “As More Stores Go Cashless, Lawmakers Push Back” (Business Day, Feb. 22):The banning of cash in retail establishments is understandable from the stores’ perspective. Among other things, it eliminates the need to deal in cash, which requires trips to and from the bank, cash registers, employees who still know how to make change, and the risk of embezzlement and robbery. No wonder stores are willing to pay credit card issuers up to 5 percent off the top. But for the disadvantaged who have not established a credit rating or who have other impediments to obtaining a credit or debit card, like undocumented immigrants, it can be a great hardship. And what meaning is left in the statement on every dollar bill and on all the higher denominations as well: “This note is legal tender for all debts, public and private”? If that statement is the law, how can any store refuse to accept cash?George J. Grumbach Jr.New YorkAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Tuesday adopted a strict interpretation of a federal immigration law, saying it required the detention of immigrants facing deportation without the possibility of bail if they had committed crimes, including minor ones, no matter how long ago they had been released from criminal custody.The vote was 5 to 4, with the court’s more conservative justices in the majority. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., writing for the majority, said the plain language of a federal law required the result.Justice Stephen G. Breyer summarized his dissent from the bench, a sign of profound disagreement. He said the majority had violated the nation’s basic values.“The greater importance of the case,” he said, “lies in the power that the majority’s interpretation grants the government. It is a power to detain persons who committed a minor crime many years before. And it is a power to hold those persons, perhaps for many months, without an opportunity to obtain bail.”Justice Alito said the law may be subject to constitutional challenges in individual cases, a subject that was not before the justices. It was clear, he wrote, that Congress had required the secretary of Homeland Security to take into custody immigrants released from criminal custody even if years had passed in the meantime.“An official’s crucial duties are better carried out late than never,” Justice Alito wrote.Cecillia Wang, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, which represented the immigrants challenging the law, said the decision was part of a worrisome trend.“For two terms in a row now,” she said, “the Supreme Court has endorsed the most extreme interpretation of immigration detention statutes, allowing mass incarceration of people without any hearing, simply because they are defending themselves against a deportation charge.”The case concerned a law, enacted in 1996, which included a contested phrase. It said federal authorities “shall take into custody any alien” convicted of certain crimes, some serious and some minor, “when the alien is released.” The key word was “when.”Immigrants’ rights advocates said the law required prompt detention. Lawyers for the federal government said immigrants convicted of crimes may be detained years after their release.The difference matters, for hundreds and perhaps thousands of immigrants, because people detained under the law are not entitled to a bail hearing to determine whether they are dangerous or pose a flight risk.The plaintiffs included people who entered the country illegally, tourists or students who overstayed their visas and lawful permanent residents. Among them were immigrants who arrived in the United States legally as infants, committed minor crimes like possessing marijuana and were detained years after completing their sentences.The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, concluded that the law requires mandatory detention only if the federal authorities take immigrants into custody soon after they are released.“Because Congress’s use of the word ‘when’ conveys immediacy,” Jacqueline H. Nguyen wrote for a unanimous three-judge panel, “we conclude that the immigration detention must occur promptly upon the aliens’ release from criminal custody.”Justice Alito wrote that such a strict deadline could allow local authorities opposed to federal immigration policy to frustrate the goals of the federal law.“State and local officials sometimes rebuff the government’s request that they give notice when a criminal alien will be released,” he wrote. He cited statistics indicating that there were tens of thousand of such refusals in 48 states from January 2014 to September 2016.“Under these circumstances, it is hard to believe that Congress made the secretary’s mandatory-detention authority vanish at the stroke of midnight after an alien’s release,” he wrote.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Clarence Thomas, Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh joined all or most of the majority opinion.In a concurring opinion, Justice Kavanaugh wrote that the question before the court was a narrow one.He said it was beyond dispute that the government can deport immigrants convicted of some crimes and that it can detain them during deportation proceedings.The question the court decided, he wrote, was merely whether “the executive branch’s mandatory duty to detain a particular noncitizen when the noncitizen is released from criminal custody remains mandatory if the executive branch fails to immediately detain the noncitizen when the noncitizen is released from criminal custody.”It would be odd, he wrote, for that requirement to change, for example, “if the executive branch fails to immediately detain the noncitizen because of resource constraints or because the executive branch cannot immediately locate and apprehend the individual in question.”In dissent, Justice Breyer wrote that the case was neither narrow nor technical.“Under the government’s view,” he wrote, “the aliens subject to detention without a bail hearing may have been released from criminal custody years earlier, and may have established families and put down roots in a community.”“These aliens,” Justice Breyer wrote, “may then be detained for months, sometimes years, without the possibility of release; they may have been convicted of only minor crimes — for example, minor drug offenses, or crimes of ‘moral turpitude’ such as illegally downloading music or possessing stolen bus transfers; and they sometimes may be innocent spouses or children of a suspect person.”Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan joined the dissent in the case, Nielsen v. Preap, No. 16-1363.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIncreasingly, people are being forced to flee their homes not just by war and poverty, but also by climate change. It’s time we rethink our antiquated ideas about immigrants.By Laila LalamiMs. Lalami is a novelist.My first encounter in America was with a luggage cart. In the summer of 1992, when I landed at Kennedy Airport, I carried with me a travel bag filled with books. It was so heavy that it could not be checked in at my originating airport in Casablanca, Morocco, without putting me over the weight limit. Since I couldn’t afford the excess baggage fee, I brought the bag with me on the plane, where the flight attendant helped me hoist it into the overhead bin. In New York, I hauled it down the jet bridge and through passport control, my hands blistering from the effort. Relief washed over me when I saw a row of carts. I tried to get one, only to discover that it required three dollars to unlock. I remember thinking: What kind of a heartless place is this?I didn’t have three dollars, or a five or a ten. The money I did have was in the larger denominations I had received at the currency exchange office where I’d traded in my meager savings. I began to doubt whether I would make it to the terminal from which my flight to California was scheduled to leave. Then a voice behind me called, “Do you need help with that?” A middle-aged man in a baseball cap picked up my bag and carried it for me to the terminal bus. All the way to my next gate, other people stepped in to help. This wasn’t a heartless place after all, I thought; Americans were more than willing to lend a hand to a stranger.I am no longer a stranger here. In the 20-odd years since I arrived at Kennedy, I have had ample time to learn about this country’s history, culture and politics. Although my plan had been to complete a graduate degree in linguistics and return to Morocco, chance intervened: I met an American, we fell in love, got married. Now, I’m an immigrant. There is nothing extraordinary about this condition — I share it with millions of others — yet hardly a day goes by when I am not reminded that to be an immigrant is to have crossed a threshold, to see the world from two vantage points at once, to perceive it in shades of gray rather than in black and white.When I hear elected officials talk about immigrants, they seem to be speaking about figments of their imagination, conjured up to illustrate talking points. The president rants about “criminals,” “rapists” and “terrorists,” then uses them as justification for building a wall, separating families at the border, jailing refugee children in tent camps and banning people from five Muslim countries. The president’s critics, meanwhile, portray newcomers to this country as singularly talented people who start new businesses, serve in the armed forces, innovate new technologies, run for Congress or otherwise “get the job done.”By casting immigrants as either heroes or villains, these politicians reveal that they view immigration as a law-enforcement issue. The reality is much more complicated. Like other species on this planet, human beings are a migratory type. When they suddenly find themselves in desperate need of physical safety or economic opportunity, they leave home and start over somewhere new. It has always been this way. The earliest stories we tell ourselves are stories of displacement: Adam’s fall from Eden, Moses’ flight from Egypt, Muhammad’s hegira to Medina. Trying to stop this process through the building of walls strikes me as both ineffective and unnatural — like trying to stop a river from flowing.I use the simile deliberately. Scientists predict that over the next decade the earth will warm by 1.5 degrees, and perhaps as much as two degrees Celsius if we fail to take drastic and sustained action on climate change. Even under the best-case scenarios, we will witness huge hurricanes, wildfires, droughts and other severe weather events. The consequences will be dire: loss of homes and livelihoods, hunger and disease, probably conflict, but eventually dislocation. As much as it is an economic, a social and a foreign-policy issue, migration is a climate issue.Those who are safe from displacement — at least for the moment — must confront the roles they want to play in this unfolding global story. What responsibility do people in America, for example, have toward those who live in places that have been ravaged by wars the American government has started or abetted? What responsibility do they have toward those who have benefited least from industrialization but stand to suffer most? And how do they plan to adapt to global migration? In Christchurch, New Zealand, last week, at least 49 people were killed during Friday prayers by a white nationalist who released a manifesto railing against Muslims and immigrants. As refugees and migrants rebuild their lives in new places, both the intolerance and the resilience of their host communities are revealed.In order to have a fruitful conversation about immigration, we have to set aside antiquated ideas about barbarians at the gate and thoroughly rethink our approach to the inevitable displacements that will take place in our lifetimes. The overwhelming majority of immigrants are neither dangerous monsters nor exceptional achievers — they are ordinary people who find themselves, for a range of personal or political reasons, pulled or pushed to leave home. Whether they will be met by kind strangers or by an enforcement machine as faceless and indifferent as a luggage cart is a choice that Americans still have the luxury to make.Laila Lalami is the author of the forthcoming novel “The Other Americans.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zolan Kanno-YoungsWASHINGTON — In announcing the United States’ annual list of the world’s worst human rights violations, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo this past week singled out South Sudan and Nicaragua for government-sanctioned atrocities against their own people.Over the past year in South Sudan, Mr. Pompeo said, “military forces waged sexual violence against civilians based on their political allegiances and their ethnicity.” In Nicaragua, he said “when citizens peacefully protested Social Security benefits, they were met with sniper fire.”But the Department of Homeland Security has sought to limit the number of immigrants who left South Sudan or Nicaragua for safety, seeking to temporarily live and work legally in the United States.The apparent contradiction shows the Trump administration’s competing priorities and how they affect foreigners facing government corruption and violence.Even as homeland security has sought to tighten American borders and strictly enforce immigration laws, the State Department is highlighting some of the very systematic abuses that have sent people fleeing to the United States.That “perfectly illustrates the unfairness inherent in this administration’s approach to temporary protected status,” said Ahilan Arulanantham, the senior counsel at the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, referring to a program that gives immigrants short-term residency. He is representing plaintiffs in a lawsuit against the administration’s efforts to pull those protections from immigrants.Homeland security officials defended its approach to limit — and in many cases revoke — temporary protected status on a country by country basis.The policy, first enacted in 1990, allowed people from countries suffering from war, natural disasters, epidemic or “extraordinary and temporary conditions” to live and work in the United States until their homelands stabilized. The Trump administration has sought to restrict it, saying the protections have allowed immigrants to gain long-term residency.One homeland security official said the policy was never intended to give permanent relief to immigrants, who could otherwise apply for refugee grants or benefit from American political pressure or direct intervention on their home countries. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss a policy that is being challenged in court.An estimated 2,500 Nicaraguans are living in the United States under temporary protected status and have been ordered to leave, adjust their immigration status or face deportation. They have been given a reprieve as a federal court in California considers their case, along with immigrants from El Salvador, Haiti, Sudan, Honduras and Nepal who are also challenging the administration’s deportation order, which they say is racially motivated.Temporary protected status was first opened to Nicaraguans in 1999 after the devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch, and extended for years afterward. As part of its decision to withdraw the protections, homeland security officials concluded that conditions are now safe enough in Nicaragua for the immigrants to return.The State Department report, however, found that clashes in Nicaragua that began last April between the police and protesters have so far killed 325 people and injured 2,000 more. Hundreds have been illegally detained and tortured, and more than 52,000 exiled, the report found. Some of those who were detained were raped by government officials; lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender as well as indigenous people were attacked.“Human rights deteriorated markedly during the year,” the report on Nicaragua concluded.The disparity between the two agencies’ assessments of South Sudan is slightly blurrier.This past week, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, approved a limited extension for immigrants from South Sudan, allowing those who were already in the United States before January 2016 to remain for another 18 months. It was the second time since temporary protected status, commonly referred to as T.P.S., was granted to South Sudan in 2011 that the United States limited its extension to only some of the immigrants. (The first, more limited extension of the temporary protections was granted to the country in 2017.)Ms. Nielsen “determined the ongoing armed conflict and extraordinary and temporary conditions that support South Sudan’s current designation for T.P.S. continue to exist,” the Department of Homeland Security said in a statement.But the protections did not extend to those from South Sudan who came to the United States after January 2016. Warring factions in South Sudan reached what the United Nations has described as a fragile peace agreement in 2018, after five years of ethnic violence in South Sudan.That has infuriated pro-immigration advocates who said hundreds of immigrants who had hoped to win temporary legal residency, and are already in the United States, now face imminent deportation to South Sudan.“While the warring parties were able to come to a peace agreement, many people are still being displaced from their homes due to fighting and insecurity and there is substantial work to be done to address the longtime suffering of the South Sudanese people,” said Martin Omukuba, who oversees South Sudan policy at the International Rescue Committee, a humanitarian aid group.The State Department described a range of atrocities in South Sudan throughout 2018 — many at the hands of government officials or security forces.They included “rape and gang rape employed as a weapon of war, arbitrary detention and torture, enforced disappearances, explosive remnants of war, forced displacement, the mass destruction of homes and personal property, widespread looting, and use of child soldiers,” the department’s report found.At least 382,000 people have been killed in the conflict in South Sudan, according to the report, which cited figures from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.There is a history of tension between the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security over ending or otherwise limiting temporary protected status for immigrants.In a 2017 email exchange obtained by the A.C.L.U., a senior diplomat raised concerns over how homeland security officials would announce the end of the protections for immigrants from Sudan.The diplomat, Paul Sutphin, then a senior adviser for the State Department focusing on Sudan and South Sudan, wrote that language about the policy that was being prepared for publication in the Federal Register might encourage “the Sudanese government to take actions that could exacerbate the ongoing armed conflicts in South Sudan.”Mr. Sutphin said the Sudanese government could view the language as a “green light” to force displaced people to “deadly conflict-affected areas” and pushed homeland security officials to make clear that there was still an internal conflict in South Sudan.Asked for comment, Mr. Sutphin said in an email, “State and D.H.S. did not agree on whether the situation on the ground in Sudan merited ending T.P.S.”In a subsequent email, another State Department official said diplomats were caught off guard by the Department of Homeland Security’s announcement in September 2017 that it would end temporary protected status for immigrants from Sudan.The State Department report released last week found that in Sudan last year, “human rights issues included unlawful or arbitrary killings, forced disappearance, torture and arbitrary detention.”AdvertisementIt has long been an open secret that some farms survive by relying on an undocumented labor force. Now, tough immigration enforcement has caused a crisis.Eladio Beltran, 32, and two of his four children, Hady, 12, and Nisi, 10, stand outside their home in upstate New York. Mr. Beltran, originally from Mexico, has worked on farms in the United States for over a decade.CreditCreditLibby March for The New York TimesSupported byBy Christina Goldbaum[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]HOMER, N.Y. — The fears weigh on Mike McMahon: If one of his undocumented workers gets a traffic ticket, it could prompt an immigration audit of his entire farm. If another gets detained by immigration agents at a roadside checkpoint or in a supermarket parking lot, the rest may flee. And if his undocumented work force disappears overnight, there is no one to replace them.“It keeps me up at night,” said Mr. McMahon, who owns a dairy farm south of Syracuse. “There are people out there who just say, ‘Send them all back and build a wall.’ But they would be facing empty shelves in the grocery store if that were to happen.”It has long been an open secret in upstate New York that the dairy industry has been able to survive only by relying on undocumented immigrants for its work force. Now, this region has become a national focal point in the debate over President Trump’s crackdown on undocumented immigrants and their role in agriculture.The tensions have escalated to such a degree over the last year that Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo described federal agents as reckless, accusing Immigration and Customs Enforcement of violating the rights of farmers in pursuing undocumented immigrants.Mr. Cuomo was responding to a high-profile raid on a dairy farm, during which a farmer was briefly handcuffed after protesting that ICE agents were mistreating one of his workers. The farmer claimed ICE did not have a warrant to enter his farm.Mr. Cuomo is a Democrat, but Republicans who represent upstate New York in Congress have also come to the defense of the farmers.The pressures here reflect broader challenges facing farmers across the country who rely on undocumented workers. The farmers are struggling with a shrinking labor pool as fewer migrants cross illegally into the country and migrants who are long-term residents become too old for field work.This year the labor shortage has been compounded by Mr. Trump’s trade war and extreme weather, forcing some small farmers to switch to higher-value crops, to reduce their acreage and to consider selling their farms.If anything, the situation in upstate New York is more difficult.Smaller dairy farmers here have been some of the hardest hit by tougher immigration enforcement because their workers are subject to scrutiny from both ICE and the border patrol, which is allowed to operate within 100 miles of the border — in this case, with Canada.Agriculture contributes an estimated $37 billion to New York’s economy and is responsible for nearly 200,000 jobs.“We are seeing that the immigration enforcement is having a tremendous enforcement impact on farm workers, on farms,” said Mary Jo Dudley, director of the Cornell Farmworker Program. “For many farmers, there’s no alternative labor force.”To search private property like a farm, ICE needs a warrant that shows reason to believe a particular undocumented immigrant is living or working there. But if undocumented workers leave the farm to go to a grocery store, they can be approached by ICE agents in a parking lot or a roadside checkpoint, detained and deported.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]Advocates for undocumented immigrants said ICE agents target immigrants indiscriminately in these public spaces. But ICE disputes those claims.“ICE continues to focus its limited resources first and foremost on those who pose the greatest threat to public safety,” said an ICE spokesman, Khaalid Walls. “ICE only conducts targeted immigration enforcement. The agency does not conduct raids or sweeps that target aliens indiscriminately.”Supporters of stricter immigration policies said they were sympathetic to the plight of small farms. But they pointed out that the farms’ reliance on inexpensive, undocumented labor would handicap American agriculture in the long term.They argue that while immigration crackdowns could force farms to consolidate and mechanize and may be hard for individual farmers, it would make the industry more competitive globally.“The more productive policy response would be subsidized loans to invest in machinery for small-scale farmers, rather than revising how we import foreign workers and perpetuating the labor-intensive old-fashioned way of doing business,” said Mark Krikorian, executive director for the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank that favors restricting immigration.Dairy farmers face particular challenges because without American workers, they have no alternative to migrant labor. The government program that brings in legal temporary workers does so only for seasonal workers and dairy farming is a year-round activity.In Washington, lawmakers representing dairy-heavy districts have tried to reform the legal foreign workers program to include year-round dairy workers.But so far, efforts have fallen short. These lawmakers are caught between staunch conservatives who consider any reprieve a form of amnesty and Democrats who want more comprehensive immigration reform, which would also address the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, and immigrants with Temporary Protected Status.“We’ll have detractors on both sides,” said Representative Chris Collins, a Republican in western New York.Still, Mr. Collins said, a solution is urgently required to keep dairy farms afloat while the political impasse over a comprehensive immigration package drags on. “There’s not a single person representing dairy that doesn’t understand it’s a crisis, a true crisis,” he said.He plans to introduce legislation in the coming weeks that would offer temporary employment authorization to year-round farmworkers on dairies as a stopgap measure.Deportations have been a concern for New York’s farmers and farm workers since the early 2000s, when the sudden enforcement of immigration laws led to a rash of immigration enforcement activities on farms across the state. After the Obama administration narrowed the pool of immigrants ICE prioritized for deportation, some sense of security returned to upstate farming communities, which was shattered when Mr. Trump took office.“We had heard things were starting to get bad, some wineries in the area and quite a few in the Finger Lakes started losing workers. It was almost immediately after Trump took office that ICE started snagging people,” said Kelly Raby, a vineyard owner in Lewiston.Last fall, Victor Pacheco, the foreman on Ms. Raby’s family farm for 23 years, was detained by ICE agents and deported to Mexico.Ms. Raby has struggled to find a foreman skilled enough to manage her vineyard, where the grapevines are now dusted in a light coat of snow and in need of winter pruning. This has left her uncertain about the future of their family farm and the president she helped vote into office.“I still agree with Trump in a lot of ways, but I’m more on the fence about him now,” Ms. Raby said. “I don’t want to lose the immigrants who are working here and growing our food.”Over the last 50 years, American farms have relied on two labor forces: migrants who settled in the United States during the migration wave of the 1960s and 1970s; and those who stayed temporarily, illegally crossing the border for each harvest season. But today, permanent migrants who settled are reaching their 60s, fewer and fewer seasonal migrants are coming to the United States, and enforcement operations are driving the few migrants left out of the state.“Today you go to work and you don’t know if you’ll come back home and be with your family again,” said Eladio Beltran, an immigrant from Mexico who works in an apple orchard in Albion. He is currently awaiting deportation proceedings after being pulled over by state troopers and taken into ICE custody.“Being undocumented and living in New York State is not worth it anymore,” he said.For dairy farmers like Mr. McMahon, if even one of his migrant workers leaves, the absence has a drastic effect on his 2,300-acre farm operation. He depends on having enough workers for round-the-clock shifts, seven days a week. They keep this schedule year-round, he said, to ensure his roughly 800 cows are milked three times a day, their calves are fed, and all cows are medically cared for.“What we really want is some kind of method of getting foreign workers legally,” Mr. McMahon said from his farm in Homer, about 30 miles south of Syracuse.Owners of apple orchards and vineyards, who can afford to, have also started turning to the H-2A program, the legal foreign worker program that brings agricultural labor to the United States for temporary work.Critics of the program argue that workers are often exploited by employers and risk deportation if they complain about mistreatment. Farmers complain that it is costly, complicated and laden with bureaucracy.“We didn’t really have a choice but to use to H-2A,” said Mark Nicholson of Red Jacket Orchards, which switched to using the program last year. “When the system works, it answers one of our biggest challenges to staying in business — and that’s having a reliable source of skilled farm labor. But when it doesn’t work, it dooms us to the same risk as before.”If the issue of undocumented farm workers is left unaddressed, there will be an impact across the supply chain. “There will be long-term consequences that not only our farms will deal with, but consumers will have to deal with as well,” said Steve Ammerman, the senior associate director of public policy at the New York Farm Bureau.Without a legal alternative to informal migrant labor, the competition between dairy farms to retain migrant workers is so fierce that farm owners, once notorious for underpaying and mistreating workers, are now improving working conditions and wages to entice employees to stay on their farms, workers said.Victor Cortez is an immigrant who has worked on a dairy farm in western New York for 18 years. A few years ago, farm owners “wouldn’t let us leave the farm,” he said, adding, “They wouldn’t pay us as much as they promised they would.”“But the good thing about it now,” he said, “is that we get paid more and this farmer is good to me.”Follow Christina Goldbaum on Twitter: @cegoldbaumOpinionShikha DalmiaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Milan Schreuer and Richard Pérez-PeñaUTRECHT, Netherlands — Gunshots shattered the tram ride in a heavily Muslim neighborhood of this old Dutch city. The prime minister called it possible terrorism. SWAT teams rushed in, residents were ordered indoors, and all mosques closed as the police sought a killer in a country that had been spared large-scale terrorist attacks.Suddenly the mayhem on Monday in the Netherlands seemed as if it might be another planned public slaughter in a seemingly tranquil part of the world, like the mosque massacre that had  traumatized the people of Christchurch, New Zealand.The suspect, it turned out, was a Turkish immigrant described by acquaintances as a sometimes-religious man with a criminal record who may have been entangled in a dispute with his ex-wife.It was about 10:30 a.m. when a gunman opened fire on the tram in Utrecht’s Kanaleneiland neighborhood, heavily populated by Turkish and Moroccan immigrants. Someone slammed on the emergency brakes, and other passengers screamed, clamoring to escape, according to witness accounts. At least three people were killed and five injured, some by shattering glass, and the assailant stepped off the tram and fled.“I saw a woman lying outside the tram,” said Daan Molenaar, a witness. “She was being helped by passers-by leaving their cars. Then the suspect came out of the tram with a gun in his hand, and I thought I’ve got to get out of here.”The suspect was later identified by the police as Gokmen Tanis, 37, an immigrant from the central Turkish town of Yozgat. Mr. Tanis had been arrested before and is facing a rape charge, according to the Dutch national broadcaster and people who know him.The police conducted house-to-house raids in the area and arrested Mr. Tanis eight hours later, just as officials were holding a news conference on the attack.“He’s very religious,” but also “a real guy of the streets, aggressive as well,” Alptekin Akdogan, who said he knew Mr. Tanis, told The New York Times. He said he and Mr. Tanis had grown up in the Kanaleneiland neighborhood.Zabit Elmaci, 39, said he used to work with Mr. Tanis, washing dishes in a restaurant called Abrikoos. He described Mr. Tanis as “always in trouble.”“I don’t remember him as a religious person, but about two years ago he started acting weird, so I gradually stopped seeing him,” Mr. Elmaci said.Mr. Tanis was born in Yozgat, according to both Mr. Akdogan and Zeki Baran, director of the Netherlands Yozgat Federation.“We don’t know much about him, except for that his father told us that he had not been in touch with his family for a long time,” Mr. Baran said. A relative of the suspect is a candidate for mayor of Yozgat, he added.While the authorities had not ruled out terrorism by Monday night, the panic that convulsed Utrecht, a city of 330,000 with a diverse population, appeared to partly reflect heightened nerves from the Christchurch killings three days earlier, which left 50 people dead.Utrecht quickly became a trending topic on Twitter as people sought to learn more. News websites, including that of The New York Times, provided live updates of what was known.The interest was amplified by the neighborhood of the attack, partly populated by people of Turkish descent. That raised speculation that the shooting may have been somehow tied to the angry denunciations by Turkey’s president of the suspect in the Christchurch slaughter, a self-proclaimed white nationalist who had visited Turkey and expressed hatred of immigrants.President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey said Monday night that Turkish intelligence agencies were investigating the Utrecht shooting further. “Some say that it is a family dispute, others say it is a terrorist act,” Mr. Erdogan told Turkish television.Whether others were involved in the shooting remained unclear, although the police said they had made two additional arrests by Monday evening. Some witnesses said they had seen more than one assailant on the tram.Mark Rutte, the prime minister of the Netherlands, raised the possibility of terrorism soon after the tram attack. The mayor of Utrecht, Jan van Zanen, was more definitive, declaring: “We are working on the assumption of a terrorist motive.”The Netherlands’ main counterterrorism agency raised its assessment of the threat in Utrecht Province, just southeast of Amsterdam, to the highest level and said it had activated a crisis team.The authorities ordered the evacuation of all mosques in Utrecht, and security was increased at mosques elsewhere in the Netherlands.But later in the day, the police said they were also considering that the motive might have been personal. Their warning for people to stay indoors was lifted.According to the Turkish state-run news agency Anadolu, relatives of Mr. Tanis said that the shooting had originated from a family dispute, and that only one person had been the intended target. Similar accounts came from people who knew him in the Netherlands.The identities of the victims remained unconfirmed Monday night, although there was some speculation one might have been his former wife. Some Turkish news accounts quoted the father of the suspect, Mehmet Tanis, as saying his son had divorced his wife, who lived in the Netherlands, more than a decade ago.Approximatelocation of attack24 October Square stationUtrechtApproximatelocation of attack24 October Square stationUtrechtBy The New York TimesThe Netherlands has one of the lowest rates of private firearms ownership in Europe, according to international studies, about 2.6 per 100 people, compared to more than one per person in the United States. Its rate of gun homicide, about 0.2 to 0.3 per 100,000 people each year, is fairly typical for Europe, and far below the United States rate of about 4 per 100,000 people.Utrecht, about 25 miles from Amsterdam, has been a center of Dutch culture and commerce for a millennium. Utrecht University is the largest university in the Netherlands, and the city has multiple museums, a medieval old town, canals and the headquarters of the Protestant Church in the Netherlands.More than 30 percent of the city’s population is foreign-born, according to the Dutch census.Milan Schreuer reported from Utrecht, and Richard Pérez-Peña from London. Reporting was contributed by Christopher Schuetze from Berlin, Claire Barthelemy and Claire Moses from London, Melvyn Ingleby from Utrecht and Rick Gladstone from New York.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byMadrid DispatchBy Patrick KingsleyMADRID — Step into Bar Oliva, a cafe in a southern suburb of Madrid, and you step back 44 years.Gen. Francisco Franco, the far-right dictator, died in 1975, but his spirit lives on at the bar, where portraits of him hang from the walls, his bust stands behind the counter, his face peers from the labels of wine bottles and a map of his victorious campaign during the Spanish Civil War droops above a table.“Franco presente!” a sign beside the door declares. “Franco is here.”And so are the far right.The flag of a disbanded far-right party is draped above the television. Several customers say they’ll vote in the coming general election for Vox, a xenophobic party that is likely to become the first far-right group in four decades to enter the Spanish Parliament.And the bar is one of 12 marked on a map of fascist-friendly establishments in Spain that is being circulated among Vox supporters.“People come from across Spain to see this place,” the owner said on a recent Saturday night. “They come to the Valley of the Fallen,” the memorial west of Madrid where Franco was buried, he said.“And then they come to me,” added the owner, Xianwei Chen.Mr. Chen, as his name might suggest, is something of a surprise. The owner of a bar festooned with Spanish flags and frequented by xenophobes is, in fact, Chinese. And this is an irony not lost on his regulars.“We used to joke to him,” said Jesús López, a 51-year-old truck driver. “If Franco was still alive, he would kill you.”Nevertheless, Mr. Chen has done his best to ready himself for a Franquist resurrection.He has played host to Franco’s descendants at the bar; a group photograph of the meeting hangs on the wall opposite the civil war map. Until his neighbors complained, he flew the flag of Franco-era Spain from his apartment balcony, which overlooks the cafe’s southern front.His 4-year-old son, meanwhile, is named Franco-Xi.Though Franco banned all independent political parties and trade unions, censored all newspapers and oversaw the deaths of hundreds of thousands of captured opponents after his coup in 1936, Mr. Chen finds much to admire in the former dictator.“People say that in Franco’s time, people had no freedom — but it was a different time,” said Mr. Chen, 41, by way of breezy explanation. “Look, thanks to Franco, Spain was not involved in the Second World War. Thanks to Franco, Spain has social security. And he built the reservoirs, without any other country’s help.”Mr. Chen’s path to Francophilia has been an unlikely one. Born in China, he spent more than half his life in Qingtian, a coastal county near Shanghai that has sent hundreds of thousands of emigrants to Italy and Spain.In 1999, Mr. Chen joined them, beginning work at a Spanish plastics manufacturer run by a cousin. Gradually he moved into the hospitality business and, in 2010, bought Bar Oliva.To start with, he ran it as a regular bar. But after learning more about Franco, and liking what he learned, Mr. Chen decided in 2013 to turn the place into a monument to him. His goal was, in part, to rehabilitate the Caudillo’s reputation.“People talk a lot about Franco,” Mr. Chen said, “but they don’t know him.”To Franco’s critics, Mr. Chen is right — but not for the reasons he intended.Many Spaniards have yet to acknowledge Franco’s brutality properly, said Antonio Maestre, a prominent leftist journalist. Bar Oliva, positioned on a major crossroads and accepted as part of the fabric of the local community, is a symptom of that failure.In a country where Franco’s name has been removed from many street signs, and his statue pulled from most public spaces, Bar Oliva can be framed as an oddity.But it is equally emblematic of a Spain in which Franquist politicians were allowed to retain prominent roles in public life, and Franco-era crimes remain not only unpunished but unacknowledged.Despite efforts to disinter Franco’s body, his grave continues to be a site of pilgrimage, while thousands of his victims remain in unmarked mass graves.The bar’s “mere existence,” said Mr. Maestre, highlights the “total acceptance of this culture of exaltation of the dictatorship” within contemporary Spanish society.The revulsion of a family of leftists who walked into the bar by mistake suggests this acceptance is not universal, though.“It’s the first time I’ve come here, and it’s the last time I’ll come here,” said Valeria Martínez, a gardener sharing some Spanish ham with her daughter and her daughter’s boyfriend. “We’re just staying for the ham.”But the attendance of 12 uniformed police officers at the bar that night, unconcerned by what their presence suggested about their political preferences, seemed to underscore Mr. Maestre’s wider point.The officers, who left their cars parked illegally outside, came in and out of the bar all evening, seemingly using it as a kind of common room. The 23 police and army caps hanging above the counter — all donated to Mr. Chen by serving officers, he said — showed that their attendance was no aberration.And in general, business seems to be up, Mr. Chen said. The rise of Vox, and the Catalan secession crisis, has drawn more customers to his pub, he reckoned.“A lot of people who had this nationalist feeling inside them have lost their fear,” he said. “They’re not scared of expressing themselves.”Follow Patrick Kingsley on Twitter: @PatrickKingsley.José Bautista contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNot so long ago, the party had a clear platform. It no longer does.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.The Democratic Party no longer has a clear policy on immigration.It used to, not so long ago. The party’s leaders knew what they favored and felt comfortable saying so. Their platform generally included: 1) a path to citizenship for immigrants who came to this country illegally but had since obeyed the law; 2) deportation of undocumented immigrants who had since broken the law in significant ways; 3) fairly robust border security and investigation of companies employing undocumented immigrants, to hold down current and future levels of illegal immigration.Besides favoring these policies, Democrats were also willing to talk about the benefits of limiting immigration and of assimilation. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Consider this 2015 statement from Bernie Sanders: “What right-wing people in this country would love is an open-border policy … I don’t believe in that. I think we have to raise wages in this country.”Or this 2006 line from Barack Obama, in his book, “The Audacity of Hope”: “When I see Mexican flags waved at pro-immigration demonstrations, I sometimes feel a flush of patriotic resentment.”Or this comment last year from Hillary Clinton: “I think Europe needs to get a handle on migration.” It earned her immediate condemnation from progressives and a scathing story in The Times.I understand why the Democratic Party has moved to the left on immigration policy over the past few years. It is, in significant part, an honorable reaction to Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant racism and a desire to stand up for immigrants during his presidency. The Trump administration has separated immigrant children from their parents, and Democrats are trying to protect those families.What’s less clear to me is exactly what the Democratic Party’s new position on immigration is.Questions to answerAmong the questions that I’d like Democrats to answer:What kind of border security do you believe in? Do you favor the policies Obama put in place to reduce illegal immigration — or a different approach?Do you believe that immigrants who enter this country illegally should be allowed to stay? If not, which categories of undocumented immigrants should be at risk of deportation? (In a 2016 debate, Clinton and Sanders didn’t offer clear answers when Univision’s Jorge Ramos asked similar questions.)What do you believe should happen to future levels of legal immigration? And what should happen to the mix of different categories of immigration? Should family connections play as large a role as they now do? Should workplace skills continue to play a small role?Do you believe, as Sanders suggested in 2015, that more immigration can reduce wages, especially for lower-income workers and recent immigrants themselves?My own view is that the country benefits from significant limits on immigration. As David Frum notes in a recent cover story for The Atlantic, immigration levels were quite low for much of the 20th century — from roughly the 1910s through the 1970s. The slowdown helped many of the immigrants who arrived in the waves before 1910 (including parts of my family). They faced less competition in the labor market. Labor unions were more easily able to grow, because they were organizing an increasingly assimilated workforce. The immigration slowdown played a role in the great income surge of the post-World War II decades. Today, I’d favor a policy with a lot of similarities to the Democrats’ platform of the Obama years, including humane treatment of immigrants already here plus tight border security. I’d change the mix of immigration, to let in fewer low-skills immigrants and more high-skills immigrants. Doing so has the potential to reduce inequality and lift economic growth.I recognize that this platform is probably too conservative for many Democrats. But high levels of immigration, stretching over many decades, is not an American tradition. It’s something new, and it brings both upsides and downsides.For anyone who wants to think through the subject, I recommend Frum’s article. (The politician quotations above come from it.) For critiques of Frum’s piece, see Nancy LeTourneau in Washington Monthly and Noah Smith of Bloomberg Opinion.If nothing else, I’d urge Democrats to look at public opinion on immigration with an open mind. The polling isn’t as favorable as some of the recent conversation on the left has suggested. In a recent Gallup poll, 47 percent of Americans called illegal immigration a critical threat and another 30 percent called it an important threat.I wouldn’t call it either of those. But I do think it’s folly — both substantively and politically — to pretend that more immigration is always better than less. And I think it’s a mistake for Democrats to be so unclear about what their party’s immigration agenda is.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe advent of Beto O’Rourke’s presidential candidacy has Democrats arguing ferociously among themselves.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.Within days of his announcement that he was running for the Democratic presidential nomination, Beto O’Rourke shot up in the rankings in terms of money, media coverage and Google searches. Then the knives came out — progressives, women, African-Americans and party loyalists all took a stab at him.The response to Beto is polarizing the Democratic activist community. The overriding question for Democrats is electability: who can beat Trump is a matter of pressing concern and profound anxiety for at least half the nation. The wrong choice would be disastrous.Let’s start with O’Rourke’s negatives and we’ll get to the positives later.“I’ve been quite critical of O’Rourke because I don’t really think the 2020 race needs him. We already have a pretty good bench of Democrats, and they mostly have thought far more about policy and politics than O’Rourke has,” Sean McElwee, a co-founder of Data for Progress, whose views represent those of many on the outspoken left, told me:I think he’s vulnerable because of his gaffes and vague policies, but I think he’s most weak due to his pretty pro-development tenure on the El Paso City Council.McElwee contended that O’Rourke isno more electable than Kamala Harris or Elizabeth Warren and would be far less prepared to staff and run a White House. He’s never shown a commitment to progressive policies in the past, why should we trust him now? We don’t need a superstar, we need someone ready to push all-out to implement the progressive agenda.Gina Glantz, a co-founder of GenderAvenger, an organization determined to ensure “women are represented in the public dialogue,” replied to my inquiry about O’Rourke:I must admit after a few days of watching and reading about his opening gatherings I am less rather than more intrigued. To me, he exudes a sense of entitlement, which I find off-putting.How about O’Rourke and the white working class?Paul A. Sracic, a political scientist as Youngstown State University, emailed me:O’Rourke’s vague, “We all need to come together” message will not resonate with people who see life as a battle. Working class voters believe in pugilistic politics. And I suspect that O’Rourke’s punk rock background will seem odd to working class voters. These voters want to feel as if their candidates are “one of them.”Negative coverage in the press has been abundant:“The Unbearable Male Privilege of Beto O’Rourke" (The Daily Beast). He voted for Republican legislation (The Wall Street Journal). He put his adolescent fantasies into print (The Resurgent). He’s a wealthy dilettante (The National Review), an empty shell (The New Republic), a teenage hacker (USA Today), a master class in male entitlement (The Guardian).At the same time, O’Rourke has captured the imagination of millions of voters and donors.Frank Wilkinson, a former colleague of mine, wrote at Bloomberg:O’Rourke is not the only candidate modeling decency as an antidote to Trumpism. But he’s the one who has best harnessed the anxiety and rage generated by Trumpism’s assaults on democratic values and transformed them into willful, defiant optimism.Don Fowler, former chair of the Democratic National Committee, captures this feeling: “He clearly possesses a charismatic charge, a spark that few others have.” Still, Fowler goes on to enumerate O’Rourke’s liabilities:His impressive campaign for the Senate in Texas was a combination of luck and a damaged opponent. His ability to conduct an effective national campaign is totally unknown. His recent tour of the country was essentially by himself — a very poor way to test a candidate’s national potential in a crowded, competitive field. As to issues, the same unknown quality of his organizational potential characterizes his policy and ideological stances. Both major prongs of a national campaign are truly unknown and must be tested in the public crucible. Only time will tell on both policy and operational scores — wait and see.A Texas Democratic operative lavished praise on Beto, on background, in order to speak freely:O’Rourke has an intangible energy that goes beyond the litmus test. On a national scale that could be monumental. It’s emotional. It’s not tangible. Beto tapped into something with nontraditional voters. People who never publicly supported a campaign were putting Beto signs in their yard. LeBron James wore his logo on a hat.“I first saw the momentum in late spring 2018,” reports the Republican strategist Scott Reed:I live in Dallas and saw the yard signs popping up, all in front of large homes and mansions that would traditionally have been straight G.O.P. It almost became a badge of courage for many of the limousine liberals in Dallas.Reed, who ran Bob Dole’s 1996 presidential campaign, went on:His Willie Nelson event in Austin drew 50k folks and was also a strong signal to young voters — even though very few voted. His performances in the debates was exceptional and added to his momentum. Cruz was the #1 G.O.P. fund-raiser and he got swamped every quarter. I see a little Bobby Kennedy in him.Richard Murray, a political scientist at the University of Houston, was also impressed. He emailed:His appeal in Texas is a combination of an attractive persona with animated mannerisms that come across as cool and authentic to many (especially those under 35); boundless energy plus exceptional verbal skills that enable him to weave stories from folks he’s encountered on the campaign trail into compelling narratives (a rare skill) — displayed in an environment where voters in our very diverse and fast growing metropolitan areas have soured on the far right turn of Texas GOP leaders like Ted Cruz and Dan Patrick.How about a national campaign?Will this combination work in a national primary featuring the most diverse set of competitors in the nation’s history? I do not know, nor does anyone else. But the retail politics states of Iowa and New Hampshire are great places to test his road show outside the Lone Star State.Murray’s son, Keir Murray, a Democratic political consultant in Texas, added more praise:My own sense is his appeal was based, in part, on being a natural foil to Cruz (who is pretty much loathed by all but true conservatives in Texas) and by extension to Trump. O’Rourke is self-effacing, low-key guy, who comes across as fundamentally decent. I don’t think most Democrats, liberals or everyday Texans knew much about his policy positions, or cared much. They liked him. People sensed he was being himself — not perfect, not having all the answers — but honest and good-hearted.Robert Stein, a political scientist at Rice, is upbeat on O’Rourke’s prospects. He wrote me:Shortly after the November election progressives hit him hard for not backing their issue positions on guns and energy. My sense is that he is looking to avoid being defined on a left/right dimension/continuum. It seems like he is trying to define his candidacy as humane, pragmatic and capable of beating Trump.Stein argues thathe is sufficiently retail for places like Iowa and New Hampshire and if he can survive the rush before Super Tuesday, he should come out of the March primaries in the upper echelon of remaining candidates.Although O’Rourke lost the Texas Senate race to Cruz by just under 3 percent, exit polls show that he won among women, 54-46; among voters under 45, 59-40; minorities, 69-31; college graduates, 51-48; moderates, 65-34; and voters who say they are not white born-again or evangelical Christians, 61-38.While suffering from some hostile media impressions, O’Rourke has gotten his share, if not more so, of favorable press:He’s authentic, full of energy, and stripped of consultant-driven sterility (Vanity Fair). Will Beto O’Rourke Become President? (Texas Monthly). Beto O’Rourke Rivals Trump on Social Media (Newsweek). Beto O’Rourke could lead a blue wave in Texas (Vox). Beto O’Rourke blows up the 2020 Democratic primary (Politico).At the same time, some of the strongest opposition to O’Rourke — reflecting schisms within the Democratic Party — has come from women’s rights advocates, many of whom took offense at a comment he made to Vanity Fair: “Man, I’m just born to be in it.”Natasha Korecki, a Politico reporter, captured the feminist opposition to O’Rourke in her March 15 story, “‘Not one woman got that kind of coverage’: Beto backlash begins.”Korecki wrote:The breathless, sweeps-like cable television coverage that greeted the former Texas congressman’s first campaign events stunned and frustrated many Democratic operatives — particularly women — who viewed it as an example of the double standard at work in the historically diverse presidential field. To them, O’Rourke, a white, male candidate had already been anointed the next sensation, his entry into the race greased by live television shots and O’Rourke-centric panels.Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster, told Politico, “I think if you look at the pattern, there is a real distinction between the way men were covered and the way the women were covered. There’s a huge double standard,” before adding:With women, many, many more negatives were raised and the men were treated like the Second Coming. I’m surprised that this is continuing in 2019, after the year of the woman.In response to the animosity, O’Rourke indicated that he would pick a woman as his vice-presidential running mate. On March 15, he told reporters: “It would be very difficult not to select a woman with so many extraordinary women who are running right now.”O’Rourke appears to be acutely sensitive to this issue. He told Vanity Fair, before he announced his bid, that “the government at all levels is overly represented by white men,” and he didn’t leave it there:That’s part of the problem, and I’m a white man. So if I were to run, I think it’s just so important that those who would comprise my team looked like this country. If I were to run, if I were to win, that my administration looks like this country. It’s the only way I know to meet that challenge.It’s not altogether clear, however, that women currently seeking the top job would be thrilled by O’Rourke’s offer of the number two spot.Washington political professionals are also going to be a hard sell.John Lawrence, former chief of staff for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, questions whether O’Rourke is up to the challenge. Lawrence says he finds it difficultto see a white male emerging from the multicandidate pack. True, all the women/minorities could divide up the other voters, but with proportionate allocation of delegates, it’s hard to see a white male moderate emerging with a majority.“Freshness only goes so far,” Lawrence pointed out:After a year of being beat up by competitors, the press, Trump, grass roots, etc., he might not look or sound so “fresh.” He strikes me as somewhat superficial, very much a personality; I am not convinced the act sells on a national basis.Isaac Hale, a political scientist at the University of California, notes thatBeto doesn’t have the luxury of running in the Democratic presidential primary as “not Ted Cruz.” which is certainly a large part of what endeared him to Democratic voters around the country in 2018.O’Rourke, Hale observes, “is something of a blank slate that voters and party elites can project their own policy preferences onto,” a characteristic that can work to his advantage or disadvantage.Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at U.C.L.A., looked at the same issue from a different angle:The ways these races get framed depends a lot on who the candidates are and what their constraints are — if O’Rourke finds himself in a race against another young white male who is inspiring, these things won’t be a strength of his; but if he finds himself running against an older person who isn’t inspiring, they could be.Vavreck added:Your constraints are only constraints if your opponent doesn’t share them; and your strengths are only strengths if your opponent doesn’t share them. When there are 16 people vying for the nomination you have to winnow the field to be able to talk sensibly about who has advantages beyond just fund-raising and organization. Are there no other candidates who have “capacity to inspire,” “policy centrism”?In the current contest, Vavreck declared, “There are. This makes me think that these may not be unique strengths of this candidate!”Suzanne Model, a sociologist at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst who has written extensively on race and immigration, argues that O’Rourke faces an uphill battle for the nomination:O’Rourke will do well in the primaries but it is unlikely that he will win. Young, handsome and self-effacing, his charismatic manner will appeal to “non-policy wonks.” This includes traditionally-oriented women, young adults, and political moderates. In addition, his recent pro-immigrant stance, Hispanic sounding name and Texas roots should garner him support among Latinos.But, Model continued,O’Rourke’s problem is that he has little appeal to left-leaning voters or African-Americans. They watched the G.O.P. destroy a Democratic president who expressed a willingness to work with Republicans; hence, they seek a candidate who is more experienced, sophisticated and aggressive.In order to beat Trump, Model contends,The Democratic standard-bearer must carry a significant proportion of two constituencies: African Americans and working class white males. Under an O’Rourke candidacy, too many African Americans will stay home and too many working class white males will vote for Trump. Perhaps no Democratic candidate is capable of succeeding simultaneously with these two heterogeneous groups, but that is the most plausible route to a Trump defeat.Which brings us back to the existential question I raised at the beginning of this column: Can Beto O’Rourke beat Donald Trump?O’Rourke’s fund-raising success will keep him in the contest longer than less fortunate competitors, and the volume of media coverage he elicits is boosting his name recognition, a crucial first step.G. Elliott Morris, a political data reporter for the Economist, noted on Twitter that O’Rourke has received more cable news coverage in the five days since his announcement than any other candidate during the full post-announcement week. O’Rourke is on a path to get 180 percent of the coverage received by Bernie Sanders, the previous leader on this measure.While head-to-head polls are still in a larval stage, they do signal the demographic sources of support for the candidates.The most recent CNN poll, released on Tuesday, shows, for example, that the leader, Joe Biden, at 28 percent overall, gets more support from moderates than from liberals, more from older voters than young voters, more from men than women and more from whites than from minorities. Bernie Sanders, at 20 percent, is just the opposite, stronger among liberals, young voters, minorities and women.O’Rourke, at 11 percent, has a long way to go to catch up with either Biden or Sanders. But the CNN poll shows that O’Rourke’s supporters tend to be slightly more liberal than moderate, young rather than old, female rather than male, and O’Rourke gets more support from African-Americans and Hispanics than from whites. In other words, O’Rourke’s backing is tilted to constituencies that are not normally associated with a moderate white Democratic politician whose voting record, by party standards, is on the center-right.If these demographic patterns hold, O’Rourke is competing more directly with Sanders (and Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren) than with Biden.The Sanders-O’Rourke battle has already begun. Bernie Sanders loyalists have been challenging O’Rourke’s credentials for the past three months as both men seek support from younger voters.“Forces loyal to Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders are waging an increasingly public war against Texas Rep. Beto O’Rourke, the new darling of Democratic activists,” Jonathan Allen and Alex Seitz-Wald of NBC News wrote in December. “O’Rourke’s ability to connect with younger and progressive white voters,” they continued, “puts him in direct competition with the Vermont senator.”On Tuesday, Sanders announced that he has hired David Sirota, one of O’Rourke’s harshest critics, as a senior adviser and speechwriter. On Dec. 22, Sirota published a 1,700 word denunciation of O’Rourke in The Guardian that concluded,Another blank-slate Democrat who pretends there is a unifying third way between the 99 percent and the 1 percent and who refuses to take sides in big fights against corporate power — that may excite Betomaniacs, establishment Democrats and those with stakes in the status quo, but it won’t rescue our country and it won’t save the planet.For a candidate with only a modest record in national politics, O’Rourke faces a daunting but not necessarily insuperable challenge in securing the nomination. His candidacy will be a test of his charisma and “spark,” as Don Fowler put it — of the “decency” and “integrity” that a fair number of voters and observers have commented on — against the more substantial and detailed progressivism of his adversaries, the moderation of still others — and all the things we don’t know about him yet.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAll those who have helped to spread the worldwide myth that Muslims are a threat have blood on their hands.By Wajahat AliContributing Opinion Writer For Muslims, Friday Prayer is like Sunday Mass for Christians. It’s the day of community prayer. We travel to our local mosques, our religious sanctuary. Our families gather in the early afternoon to pray as a community. Kids run through the halls as the imam recites the Quran in Arabic. We eat together and mingle outside.This week, as those of us in the United States attend Friday Prayer, the Muslims in Christchurch, New Zealand, are preparing for funerals.People around the world are praying for the dead in Christchurch after terrorist attacks at two mosques. The authorities say a 28-year-old Australian walked into two mosques with assault rifles and killed at least 49 people. New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, called it “an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence.”Thoughts and prayers are not enough. These attacks are the latest manifestation of a growing and globalized ideology of white nationalism that must be addressed at its source — which includes the mainstream politicians and media personalities who nurture, promote and excuse it.If the gunman’s 74-page manifesto and social media posts are to be believed, he was inspired by a thriving online ideological structure that recruits and radicalizes mostly men to save “Western civilization” from a foreign “invasion.”We’ve seen this before. The gunman’s justifications for his act of terrorism were similar to those in the 1,500-page manifesto that the Norwegian Anders Breivik posted before he killed 77 people in 2011. Mr. Breivik wanted to punish Europe for its multiculturalism and welcome of Muslim immigrants. His manifesto and attacks are said to have inspired the white nationalist Christopher Hasson, who was recently arrested on charges of stockpiling weapons with the desire to commit mass murder, especially against Muslims.If the idea that Muslims are a threat sounds familiar, it’s in part because it was used by President Trump to argue for a wall to protect America from a “caravan” of Central American migrants seeking asylum. He asserted that “Middle Easterners” were in the caravan, a claim he admitted he could not back up. During a summer trip to England, Mr. Trump warned that Britain was losing its “culture” and that immigration had “changed the fabric of Europe — and unless you act very quickly, it’s never going to be what it was.”Arguing for his travel ban aimed at mostly Muslim countries, Mr. Trump said, “I think Islam hates us,” lied about seeing Muslims celebrate the Sept. 11 attacks, and retweeted a fringe anti-Muslim group’s fake videos of Muslim refugees committing violence. No wonder the Christchurch manifesto praised Mr. Trump as “a symbol of renewed white identity and common purpose.”It’s clear that the dangers of white nationalism aren’t limited to the United States. This attack is a reminder that this dangerous ideology also threatens immigrant communities worldwide, and that it’s fueled by leaders around the world.Australia, where the gunman is said to be from, has plenty of its own anti-Muslim, xenophobic rhetoric.In 2015, a movement called Reclaim Australia organized protests against the “enforcing of Shariah law in Australia” and “the teaching of Islam in government schools.” The Conversation reported that placards displayed by the group at a rally read “Islam is an enemy of the West.” A key policy goal of the far-right political party Australian Liberty Alliance is to “stop the Islamization of Australia.” Its website warns, “Islam is not merely a religion, it is a totalitarian ideology with global aspirations.”While Australia’s prime minister, Scott Morrison, described the suspect as “an extremist, right-wing, violent terrorist,” an Australian senator, Fraser Anning, responded to the Christchurch attack by blaming “the immigration program which allowed Muslim fanatics to migrate to New Zealand in the first place.”It seems the senator shares similar sentiments with mass murderers.In his manifesto, the gunman, who referred to himself as a “regular white man,” wrote that he was carrying out the attack to “directly reduce immigration rates to European lands by intimidating and physically removing the invaders themselves.”The manifesto reveals an obsession with white supremacy, discussing the Battle of Vienna in 1683, which is glorified by white nationalists and Mr. Breivik as the critical moment when Europe staved off the Ottoman Empire’s advance and protected itself from Islam. Text scrawled on the gunman’s weapons appears to refer to military battles such as the 1189 Siege of Acre, a victory for the Christian Crusaders seeking to retake Jerusalem from Muslims. He mentioned Alexandre Bissonnette, who shot and killed six people in a Quebec mosque in 2017 and was a known white nationalist with anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim resentment.His ideas — and their sources and supporters — were familiar to me. As a researcher for the Center for American Progress Action Fund’s 2011 investigation “Fear Inc.: The Roots of the Islamophobia Network in America,” I connected fringe anti-Muslim conspiracies — such as the made-up threat of Shariah law in America — to the funding sources, think tanks, media personalities, grass-roots groups and politicians who created and promoted them.These entities have worked together to reinforce the message that Muslim Americans are inherently radical and represent a “demographic time bomb” that will overtake the white population. Mr. Breivik repeatedly cited these groups and people, many of them now closely linked to the Trump administration. Although they should not be blamed for Mr. Breivik’s violence, Marc Sageman, a former C.I.A. officer and a consultant on terrorism, said Mr. Breivik nonetheless emerges from the same ideological network.Among white nationalists’ major motivators is “the great replacement” conspiracy theory. They fear that Jews, blacks and Muslims will replace white people and eventually subordinate them. Jews are often viewed as the diabolical head of the cabal, the nerve center, who use their infinite wealth and power to reduce and weaken the white man.In October, Robert Bowers walked into the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh and killed 11 Jewish worshipers. He posted on the right-wing social network Gab that the Jewish refugee resettlement agency HIAS “likes to bring invaders in that kill our people” and “I can’t sit by and watch my people get slaughtered.” He also re-shared a post about punishing “filthy evil Jews” for bringing “filthy evil Muslims into the country.” This echoed the anti-Semitic conspiracy theory that Jewish billionaire George Soros funded the migrant “caravan” — a lie that was promoted by President Trump and other prominent conservatives.Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican, recently asked, “White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization — how did that language become offensive? He once tweeted, “We can’t restore our civilization with somebody else’s babies,” referring to the children of Latino immigrants. Steve Bannon, President Trump’s former chief adviser and former head of Breitbart News, has recommended the racist, dystopian novel “Camp of the Saints,” in which brown immigrants invade and take over France.While news of the New Zealand shooting was breaking, President Trump tweeted a link — which he has since deleted — to the home page of Breitbart News, a site that has regularly published anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant conspiracy theories.Upon learning about the massacre in Christchurch, a Muslim friend messaged me, “How will we keep our kids safe?”I didn’t have a good answer. But I know the threat we’re facing isn’t just individual terrorists. It’s the global ideology of white nationalism and white supremacy. We have to take it seriously, and call out politicians, academics and media personalities who give it a platform under the guise of exploring both sides, fostering debate or avoiding political correctness.The cost is too great. Just look to Christchurch and the 49 worshipers who should have returned home to their families and community instead of attending their last prayer.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byletterA reader shares his experiences in pronunciation.To the Editor:Re “America, Say My Name,” by Viet Thanh Nguyen (Sunday Review, March 10):My grandfather arrived in the United States from Armenia in the 1890s, and we’re still teaching folks how to pronounce our surname. (It’s juh-RAH-yahn.)Ironically, immigrants read it and in most cases pronounce it correctly. Americans don’t seem to take time to actually read it and think that they can wing it. It comes out wrong every time! We’re not giving up, America!Stephen Vartan JarahianJersey CityAdvertisement