AdvertisementSupported byBehind the flailing lies a potential disaster for immigration hawks.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistAcross the decade that preceded Donald Trump’s election, American politicians of both parties consistently tried to pass big, sweeping immigration bills that would legalize most of the country’s illegal population and increase immigration overall. These bills failed because of populist opposition, at first bipartisan (the resistance of a certain socialist senator from Vermont helped doom the 2007 effort) but increasingly simply conservative, and over time the conservative opposition developed a well-founded suspicion of Republican elites, whose plans on immigration always seemed to require ignoring their own base.This sense of betrayal was fertile ground for Trump, who used bigotry and bluster to sell himself to immigration hawks as a Republican who wouldn’t, indeed couldn’t, sell them out. You could trust him more than the Bushes and Rubios because he was willing to be disreputable, willing to give the finger to elite opinion, willing to play not only the tough guy but the bad guy. And you had to trust him, some hawks argued, because the Democrats had been radicalized on the issue and the hour was late; it was either Trump or a Californian future, in which waves of immigration transformed the entire United States into a one-party, Democratic-governed state.But the irony was that the populist resistance had already itself been reasonably effective in achieving some of the goals that Trump promised to pursue. Over the years when bipartisan elites were seeking the grail of “comprehensive” reform, they tried to appease skeptics with various forms of border-security spending, and this spending really did gradually harden the United States-Mexico border and make it much more difficult to simply slip across. Combine this with economic and demographic change in Latin America, and by the time Trump took office, border crossings had fallen by two-thirds since the presidency of George W. Bush.In this sense Trump was a lagging, not a leading, indicator. He represented the political triumph of an attitude that had already changed policy, albeit in piecemeal and only half-intentionally, and partially sealed the porous borders of 15 years before. And his chief proposal, the famous wall, would have been a (literal) extension of the existing border-security project rather than a radical addition.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]This reality created an interesting opening, especially in Trump’s first year, for a different kind of comprehensive deal, between restrictionists feeling a little more secure in their position and immigration advocates feeling chastened by populist backlash. And there was even some evidence that the White House might be groping in this direction — toward reforms that would seek stability more than radical change, tilting the entire system away from low-skilled immigration and toward recruitment, and compromising between restrictionists and enthusiasts by trying to keep the overall immigration rate about the same.But that possibility has evaporated because of the second irony of immigration in the Trump era. Having inherited a border situation that was somewhat better than his rhetoric of crisis suggested, Trump has now been handed an actual crisis — a wave of Central American families claiming asylum, which has returned monthly crossings to their highest levels in a decade and overwhelmed the system for handling new arrivals.There is a sense in which this crisis vindicates immigration hawks, who warned from the late-Obama era onward that the immigration decline wasn’t necessarily permanent, that there could easily be another wave, that United States policy — particularly the Obama precedent of a tacit amnesty for child migrants — created specific incentives for families and children to come north.But those same hawks ended up electing a president whose signature immigration policy, more walls to deter border-crossers, has proved largely ineffective in dealing with an immigration crisis created by people surrendering to Border Patrol officers and asking for asylum.Nor does that president have the capacity to devise a more effective response, it seems, since any policy solution would require two negotiations. First, negotiation with Congress, to change asylum law to override the court decisions currently tying up the Trump White House’s attempts at deterrence — like the attempt to make Central American asylum petitioners wait out the process in Mexico. Second, negotiation with the Mexican government, to get more help discouraging migration on its side of the border. For a different president these tasks would be challenging; for Trump, they seem impossible.Hence the flailing on display this week, with the president purging his entire Homeland Security apparatus, in the hopes of finding somebody with the requisite toughness to succeed where the present staff has failed. Since “toughness” apparently means one of two things — returning to the cruelty of child separation or ordering Border Patrol agents to simply ignore asylum law themselves — it’s doubtful that this purge will produce anything except more unpopularity for Trump's policies, and more unsuccessful collisions with the courts.The flailing also absolves the Democratic Party, currently torn between radicalism and evasion on immigration, from actually having to propose a coherent alternative to the White House’s approach. If this sort of crisis were happening on President Hillary Clinton’s watch, it would create all kinds of political problems for the Democrats; as it stands, they can point at the man who once boasted of Washington that “I alone can fix it” and say, well, why don’t you?There is still some political peril here for liberals, who may be inclined to confuse the public’s distaste for Trump with a consensus for an open door (though that Vermont socialist is still willing to swat down calls for open borders). But the greater peril by far is for conservative immigration skeptics, for whom the Trump presidency is at risk of turning into a policy disaster.The attempts to increase deportation have been real enough, but they will be evanescent should Trump lose in 2020. The attempt to legislate sustained legal-immigration cuts has conspicuously failed. Someone in the administration is making deals behind the scenes to increase visas for low-skilled guest workers — one of the policies that hawks resisted for years in “comprehensive” bills. And the longer the current border crisis goes on, the more this White House’s most important legacy may be offering evidence that even Donald Trump, even Donald Trump, can’t really stop illegal immigration when enough people get the idea to bring their kids and come.For every conservative faction, supporting Trump was a gamble — do you reach for short-term victory, even though his incompetence and unfitness might cost you in the long run? The danger for immigration hawks is that the long run has already arrived.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byletterGEO Group, a government contractor, takes issue with an Op-Ed article.To the Editor:Re “Forced to Work for Pennies an Hour” (Op-Ed, Jan. 30):We take issue with Victoria Law’s characterization of the services that GEO Group has provided to the government for more than three decades, under Democratic and Republican administrations.The Voluntary Work Program is a required program at all Immigration and Customs Enforcement facilities. The Obama administration codified it in Performance-Based National Detention Standards in 2011, stating that its purpose, among other goals, is to reduce idleness, improve morale and lower disciplinary incidents.GEO is contractually required to meet each of ICE’s standards. The program is strictly voluntary, and those participating in it are compensated by ICE according to the statutory reimbursement rate set by Congress.The program costs are a direct pass-through to the government, and therefore our company does not benefit financially from it. If Congress increased the reimbursement rate, any additional costs would be borne by the government. If the terms of the program are modified, we will faithfully follow them.Claims of coercion are untrue. Those in our care are provided three daily meals, free of charge, and free hygiene products on demand.We understand that America’s immigration debate is contentious, with strongly held beliefs. We do not take positions on immigration enforcement or detention policies.David VenturellaBoca Raton, Fla.The writer is senior vice president of GEO Group, a provider of correctional and detention management, community re-entry and rehabilitation services to government agencies.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNot so long ago, the party had a clear platform. It no longer does.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.The Democratic Party no longer has a clear policy on immigration.It used to, not so long ago. The party’s leaders knew what they favored and felt comfortable saying so. Their platform generally included: 1) a path to citizenship for immigrants who came to this country illegally but had since obeyed the law; 2) deportation of undocumented immigrants who had since broken the law in significant ways; 3) fairly robust border security and investigation of companies employing undocumented immigrants, to hold down current and future levels of illegal immigration.Besides favoring these policies, Democrats were also willing to talk about the benefits of limiting immigration and of assimilation. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Consider this 2015 statement from Bernie Sanders: “What right-wing people in this country would love is an open-border policy … I don’t believe in that. I think we have to raise wages in this country.”Or this 2006 line from Barack Obama, in his book, “The Audacity of Hope”: “When I see Mexican flags waved at pro-immigration demonstrations, I sometimes feel a flush of patriotic resentment.”Or this comment last year from Hillary Clinton: “I think Europe needs to get a handle on migration.” It earned her immediate condemnation from progressives and a scathing story in The Times.I understand why the Democratic Party has moved to the left on immigration policy over the past few years. It is, in significant part, an honorable reaction to Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant racism and a desire to stand up for immigrants during his presidency. The Trump administration has separated immigrant children from their parents, and Democrats are trying to protect those families.What’s less clear to me is exactly what the Democratic Party’s new position on immigration is.Questions to answerAmong the questions that I’d like Democrats to answer:What kind of border security do you believe in? Do you favor the policies Obama put in place to reduce illegal immigration — or a different approach?Do you believe that immigrants who enter this country illegally should be allowed to stay? If not, which categories of undocumented immigrants should be at risk of deportation? (In a 2016 debate, Clinton and Sanders didn’t offer clear answers when Univision’s Jorge Ramos asked similar questions.)What do you believe should happen to future levels of legal immigration? And what should happen to the mix of different categories of immigration? Should family connections play as large a role as they now do? Should workplace skills continue to play a small role?Do you believe, as Sanders suggested in 2015, that more immigration can reduce wages, especially for lower-income workers and recent immigrants themselves?My own view is that the country benefits from significant limits on immigration. As David Frum notes in a recent cover story for The Atlantic, immigration levels were quite low for much of the 20th century — from roughly the 1910s through the 1970s. The slowdown helped many of the immigrants who arrived in the waves before 1910 (including parts of my family). They faced less competition in the labor market. Labor unions were more easily able to grow, because they were organizing an increasingly assimilated workforce. The immigration slowdown played a role in the great income surge of the post-World War II decades. Today, I’d favor a policy with a lot of similarities to the Democrats’ platform of the Obama years, including humane treatment of immigrants already here plus tight border security. I’d change the mix of immigration, to let in fewer low-skills immigrants and more high-skills immigrants. Doing so has the potential to reduce inequality and lift economic growth.I recognize that this platform is probably too conservative for many Democrats. But high levels of immigration, stretching over many decades, is not an American tradition. It’s something new, and it brings both upsides and downsides.For anyone who wants to think through the subject, I recommend Frum’s article. (The politician quotations above come from it.) For critiques of Frum’s piece, see Nancy LeTourneau in Washington Monthly and Noah Smith of Bloomberg Opinion.If nothing else, I’d urge Democrats to look at public opinion on immigration with an open mind. The polling isn’t as favorable as some of the recent conversation on the left has suggested. In a recent Gallup poll, 47 percent of Americans called illegal immigration a critical threat and another 30 percent called it an important threat.I wouldn’t call it either of those. But I do think it’s folly — both substantively and politically — to pretend that more immigration is always better than less. And I think it’s a mistake for Democrats to be so unclear about what their party’s immigration agenda is.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA bipartisan deal to bring millions of immigrants out of the shadows, and pay for a secure border.By Peter King and Tom SuozziMr. King is a Republican representative from New York. Mr. Suozzi is a Democratic representative from New York.Americans are frustrated by the inaction of their federal government on comprehensive immigration reform and border security. So are we. We both represent districts on Long Island, and we have both worked on immigration-related issues for over 25 years — one of us, Representative Suozzi, from the perspective of immigrant’s rights as a mayor, as a county executive and now as a member of Congress; the other, Representative King, from the perspective of border security as a former county comptroller, and now as a congressman and former chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee.We come at this from different points of view and different parties, but with a shared commitment to finding a solution to our country’s border-security issues. Together, we have found common ground to address the problems faced by undocumented immigration and the need for robust border security.For more than 30 years, our government has failed to solve these problems. This year, the American people endured the longest government shutdown in American history when lawmakers and the president failed to reach a spending deal that centered around border security and immigration along the United States and Mexican border.The national emergency regarding immigration reform, however, is not on the border, but in the nation’s capital. We must work together — across party lines — to address these matters in a way that receives bipartisan, bicameral support, and gives the president legislation he feels he can sign.On Long Island, we have one of the 10 largest populations of undocumented immigrants from Central and South America, as well as countless unaccompanied minors. Many have been in our communities for decades living productive lives, attending school with our children, working six days a week and going to church on Sunday.It is our duty, as elected officials, to provide solutions to the problems, not sound bites to the press. That is why we are proposing a realistic set of reforms that would offer legal protection for five million undocumented people and, alongside it, enough funding to make our border secure.First, our plan would create a path to citizenship for approximately 1.9 million immigrants brought by their parents, without documentation, when they were 18 or under, the so-called Dreamers. To be eligible, they must have graduated from high school; have no record of criminal activity; and be either in the military, working full time for at least three years or attending college.We would extend similar coverage to the 400,000 people who were invited to America and given temporary protective status after facing natural disasters, violence and extreme poverty in their home countries.Finally, relatives of Dreamers, of T.P.S. recipients and of others who are undocumented — approximately 2.7 million more people — would be eligible for three years of protective status, renewable indefinitely, if they have been in the United States for a significant number of years and have no record of criminal activity.Taken together, this represents five million people. Next, to qualify for protection, an undocumented person would be required to pay a $2,000 fee. If each of the five million paid that amount, our plan would generate $10 billion.Some of that money, in turn, would be used to cover the administrative costs of this new program; we figure those costs would be $1.4 billion.The remaining $8.6 billion would be split evenly: $4.3 billion would pay for additional physical structures along the United States-Mexico border, as proposed by the Department of Homeland Security, and $4.3 billion would go to aid to El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras to help prevent further out-migration from those countries, as well as to radar technology, improved ports of entry, immigration judges, border patrol personnel and humanitarian assistance along the border, as recommended by the Department Homeland Security.For far too long, many people living in our country have been living in fear, and many others have grown frustrated by the inaction of our elected officials. The undocumented have lived in the shadows, facing the daily anxiety of potential deportation, even as they try to participate in our American communities. As legislators, we know what we have to do: We must stand together and pass legislation that will help secure our borders while giving undocumented immigrants a path to permanent residency without the fear that at any moment they may be deported.Peter King is a Republican representative from New York. Tom Suozzi is a Democratic representative from New York.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSANTA ANA, Calif. — For nearly eight years, a desert community has joined with a private prison company and federal officials to run California's largest immigration detention facility.Now, the city of Adelanto is backing out of its contract for the 1,900 bed-center 60 miles (97 km) northeast of Los Angeles, but that won't necessarily close its doors.In fact, some immigration experts say the move could pave the way for the facility to seek to expand.The change comes after California enacted a law blocking local governments from expanding immigration detention contracts in an effort to stymie the Trump administration's crackdown on immigration.The facility in Adelanto is owned and run by The Geo Group. The company declined to comment.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Thursday opened the door to addressing the nation's immigration problems through bipartisan legislation that he said should include changes to asylum law.Speaking to reporters before the start of a two-week Senate recess, McConnell noted the "crisis" at the southern border with Mexico and said, "I think it's long past due for us to sit down on a bipartisan basis and try to fix as much of this problem as we can."With the numbers of Central American migrants surging at the U.S.-Mexico border, President Donald Trump earlier this year declared a national emergency. That, he argued, would allow him to take federal funds and use them to build a wall to repel undocumented immigrants. He took the step after Congress refused to give him $5.7 billion for the construction.But McConnell said that bolstering border security would not fully address immigration ills."That doesn't solve the asylum issue. That can't be solved I don't think without some kind of statutory adjustment of some kind or another," McConnell said.Asked whether he has spoken to Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer about working on a wide-ranging immigration bill, McConnell said, "Well yeah. We're talking about a variety of different things and we'll see what happens."Schumer aides were not immediately available for comment. Earlier in the day at a news conference, Schumer did not list immigration as one of the issues he thought could be addressed by the Senate this year.U.S. officers arrested or denied entry to over 103,000 people along the border with Mexico in March, a 35 percent increase over the prior month and more than twice as many as the same period last year, according to data released on Tuesday.'A PARTICULARLY DIFFICULT AREA'The Trump administration and leading Senate Republicans have called for moving Central American asylum cases more quickly through the legal system and setting an easier standard for deportations.But toughening U.S. asylum law is likely to face stiff opposition from Democrats in Congress and from immigration advocacy groups.Democrat Chris Coons, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee that oversees immigration policy, earlier this week said it was "unlikely" he would support such changes to asylum law."But I'm always willing to hear constructive ideas and proposals. That is a particularly difficult area," Coons said in a brief interview outside the Senate chamber.Asked what other immigration problems could be addressed in a bipartisan negotiation, McConnell did not specify saying, "That's what a negotiation produces, some kind of understanding of how many of these different issues you can get agreement to solve."At the top of Democrats' list is providing permanent legal protections from deportation for hundreds of thousands of "dreamers." They are undocumented immigrant youths who were brought to the United States when they were under the age of 18, many as infants or toddlers.Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham, also in hallway interviews this week, said he has asked the White House to provide detailed changes it would want in asylum legislation."They were supposed to get it to me last week. I don't know what has happened," said Graham, who has developed close ties to Trump.Gregory Chen, director of government relations for the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said that instead of toughening U.S. asylum law, Congress and the Trump administration should invest in more orderly screening of undocumented immigrants and improve infrastructure at ports of entry.Asked whether asylum law also needs to be changed, Chen said, "In a word, no. We already have very strict and narrow definitions" of who should qualify.Altering it in the way some Republicans are discussing, Chen said in a phone interview this week, could put migrant children in jeopardy if they are sent back to their native countries, some of which have the highest levels of violent crime in the world. (Reporting by Richard Cowan and Patricia Zengerle; editing by Dan Grebler and Bill Berkrot)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCutting the number of beds in ICE facilities will just make things worse for immigrant detainees.By Anita Isaacs and Anne PrestonMs. Isaacs is a professor of political science at Haverford College. Ms. Preston is a professor of economics at Haverford College.As congressional negotiators were wrestling their way toward a compromise bill to fund the federal government this week, one sticking point emerged: the demand by Democrats to reduce the number of beds for immigrants detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. And while the details are complicated, Democrats claim that the legislation, which President Trump is expected to sign Friday, will bring the number of beds to 40,520, down from 49,057.But while well intentioned — the list of problems with the immigrant detention system is long — if the Democrats get their way, they will likely make conditions much worse for the tens of thousands of undocumented migrants and asylum seekers in limbo on both sides of the border.Cutting back beds highlights two major objections to the detention system. First, the system is an integral component of a private prison-industrial complex owned by a handful of companies, whose profits rely on mass incarceration. Second, because of the Trump administration’s criminalization of prospective asylum seekers and undocumented migrants, the vast majority of detainees are either Central American families fleeing horrific violence or law-abiding Central American and Mexican members of American society. About 58 percent of detainees have no criminal record, and only 20 percent have been convicted of serious felonies (including selling marijuana).We have spent the last few years researching migrant flows into the United States, and this data is consistent with research our team has conducted with roughly 300 returned Central American and Mexican migrants. For the most part, Central Americans were detained after crossing the border as they awaited an asylum hearing, while the majority of Mexicans spoke of being raised in the United States, playing by the rules and being apprehended for minor traffic violations — speeding, a broken taillight or driving without a license. None of the handful of deportees who were found guilty of more serious crimes had languished in immigration detention. They had been summarily deported after serving time in federal prison.Detention facilities also hamper the ability of both prospective refugees and undocumented migrants to gain asylum or to successfully plead their case to remain in the United States. Such facilities limit inmates’ communication with the outside world, a situation further compounded by their remote location. And once locked up, detainees are deprived of the means to earn the income required to hire the professional lawyers they need to have a realistic chance of success.The treatment migrants receive in detention centers is inhumane. While the traumas that detained children face are well documented, the adult immigrants we interviewed also told countless stories of abuse, including racist taunts, physical aggression and the deprivation of their most basic needs. Jason, a young man voluntarily traveling back to Mexico by bus, was apprehended on the bus and detained because his visa had expired two weeks earlier. He was sent to a detention facility. He told us of begging for food, only to have a guard toss a burrito onto the floor of a fly-infested cell that reeked of excrement. Israel Concha, a young man stopped for speeding and separated from his pregnant wife, described an immigration hearing in which he was prevented from even touching his newborn son.Such stories make it easy to see why Democrats pushed to shrink ICE’s capacity to detain people. But cutting back on capacity will not solve the abuses of immigration detention. In fact it is more likely to make things worse (a fact that Democrats have quietly conceded by allowing ICE to adjust the facilities’ capacity if they need to, which is why Republicans claim the actual number of beds allowed is much higher). It is foolhardy to imagine that, in response, the Trump administration will simply detain fewer people, in order to guarantee them all a bed. If anything, it will double down its enforcement of existing policies, rendering the lives of detainees even more of a living hell.Increasing numbers of prospective asylum seekers, subjected to the Remain in Mexico policy, would be dispatched to dangerous tent cities in Mexican border towns to wait their turn. Undocumented immigrants would be herded into increasingly cramped quarters or into county jails where conditions are even worse. Florizel, an undocumented Mexican teenager and convert to Mormonism whom we interviewed, described being apprehended and held in a county jail surrounded by pedophiles and murderers, “They left me in the cell for like almost like a whole day without water without food. And it was really cold. I would ask them, ‘Hey, but I didn't do anything!’ And they would just tell me to ‘shut up, friggin’ Mexican.’”Despite its horrors, many apprehended undocumented immigrants opt for detention as the least awful option. Those without a criminal track record are typically given a choice. They can leave the United States voluntarily, or be placed in detention to fight their removal. The vast majority of people we interviewed chose detention because they want a chance to defend themselves and can’t face the prospect of upending their entire lives by leaving. Mr. Concha opted for detention with the faint hope of preserving his life in the United States. “I wanted to fight ’til the end,” he told us. “I had a company and all my family was here. I wanted to know the final outcome instead of wondering all my life, ‘What if I would have fought? What if I did have a chance? What if the laws change?’”To the extent that Democrats are serious about immigration reform, restricting beds is more a gimmick than a solution. Absent the comprehensive reform desperately needed, Democrats should use their new political capital to protect migrant rights. That means demanding more humane treatment at detention centers, guaranteeing the right to asylum for refugees from the region, assuring due process for the majority of undocumented migrants who are upstanding members of our society, and requiring that ICE focus its resources on detaining and deporting only those migrants who have committed truly serious crimes. We know what is needed. What we lack is the political will and commitment to push forward an agenda that restores humanity and legality to a broken and corrupt system.Anita Isaacs is a professor of political science at Haverford College. Anne Preston is a professor of economics at Haverford College.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersHuman Rights First says our borders are manageable, and a reader takes issue with the president’s remark that the country is “full.” To the Editor:Re “Migrants Pour Into a System That’s ‘on Fire’” (front page, April 11):The challenges at our border are manageable and are caused neither by court rulings nor by “loopholes,” as your article suggests. The Trump administration chose cruel and illegal responses to a regional refugee and displacement crisis, stoking chaos rather than pursuing effective solutions.Instead, it could have led a regional initiative to resolve the crisis and expand refugee hosting capacity across the region, something a future administration must do. To sharply reduce numbers fleeing to its border, the United States must counter the problems involved in pushing people to leave and work with other countries so more refugees can be received and protected in the region.To manage our border, the Department of Homeland Security should restore orderly asylum processing at points of entry rather than encouraging crossings between points. And it must start a case management program to facilitate hearing appearances rather than pushing more detention for families with children. To ensure fair, timely and effective decision-making, the immigration courts should be made independent, protected from political influence and fully staffed.Eleanor AcerNew YorkThe writer is senior director for refugee protection at Human Rights First.To the Editor:Re “A ‘Full’ Nation in Dire Need of New Faces” (news analysis, front page, April 10):I had the privilege of driving across the United States several times when my younger daughter was attending college in Colorado. What struck me, along with the beauty of this vast and diverse country, was the amount of empty space. I often remarked that we have so much room, and so much latent capacity, to absorb refugees and immigrants at a level that far outpaces our current rate. It saddens me that the Trump administration is so miserly in its thinking and actions. We have more than enough. We can welcome so many more people and families who are yearning to make a new life for themselves and contribute to our society. Given that we’ve all come from someplace else (except for Native Americans), we have a moral obligation to share the bounty we have all been offered. America is blessed with ample space and resources. It would be a great shame if we turned our backs on would-be fellow citizens, and we would all be poorer as a result.Joanne HeymanHastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — As President Donald Trump rails against an influx of migrants at the border, two of his most influential White House power players are at odds over the future of his immigration policy.Fresh off orchestrating a shake-up at the Department of Homeland Security, an ascendant Stephen Miller is making a renewed push to impose tougher policies at the border. That's setting up a face-off with senior adviser and presidential son-in-law Jared Kushner, who has been quietly working on his own immigration reform package for months.Their divergent approaches to the president's signature campaign issue speak to more than the ideological gulf between the two men: They echo a long-standing philosophical divide within the West Wing over how to best position the president ahead of his re-election campaign.Miller, the mastermind of the president's Muslim travel ban and other hard-line immigration policies, has long been the combative ideologue, urging Trump to take ever-more-drastic action to stanch the border flow. Kushner, whose faith in his own careful dealmaking power rivals Miller's zeal, has spent months meeting with lawmakers and interest groups, trying to put together a package of legal immigration and border security changes that Republicans can rally around heading into the 2020 presidential election.The resulting parallel tracks — one bent on implementing ever-stricter policies and another meant to forge a more palatable and unifying legislative package — have created uncertainty and confusion both inside the administration and on Capitol Hill about where Trump is headed.The conflict came into focus during a recent White House meeting when Trump effectively knighted Miller, saying the aide would oversee immigration going forward. But Kushner had already been tasked by the president with coming up with a legal immigration plan, which Trump was briefed on this week."We'll talk to you about it soon," Trump said Wednesday of Kushner's plan, labeling it "very exciting, very important for the country."Despite the aides' differing approaches, administration officials insist there is no ill will between Kushner and Miller, who have worked together over the years at the White House and on Trump's campaign. The two are among the last remaining members of Trump's tightknit 2016 team to still work at the White House and have been longtime collaborators, co-writing speeches, including the president's convention address.But for all that, the two hold fundamentally different views on immigration and notions on how Trump ought to govern.Miller, the unrelenting hard-liner, sees illegal and legal immigration as existential threats to national security and the American worker, and views Trump as a generational voice willing to make dramatic changes. Kushner, a former Democratic-leaning real estate developer, sees a broken immigration system as another intractable Washington problem that could be solved with the right deal.That leaves them working at cross purposes at times.After Trump threatened to shut down the southern border two weeks ago, Kushner was among those whom Homeland Security officials worked with to get the president to back off. Indeed, Kushner is seen within the department as someone who accepts the realities of legal limitations and can be trusted to calm Trump down, not spin him up, as they feel Miller tends to do on immigration, according to three administration officials with knowledge of the dynamic. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss internal deliberations.Senior administration officials have tried to paint Miller and Kushner's efforts as complementary — Miller addressing the day-to-day crisis at the border while Kushner looking at longer-term solutions."President Trump alone sets immigration policy that's designed to solve the humanitarian crisis at our border, prevent illegal entry into our country and protect the American people - there's no daylight between the president's team as they work to implement that agenda," spokesman Hogan Gidley said in a statement.Trump on Wednesday also challenged the notion that anyone was running his immigration policy other than him.Asked by reporters whether he had considered tapping Miller to lead Homeland Security, Trump said: "Stephen is an excellent guy. He's wonderful person." But, he added, "Frankly, there's only one person that's running it. You know who that is? It's me."But former officials said the absence of clear lines of authority and the recent purge of senior leadership at Homeland Security could create confusion, leaving the agency to implement whichever viewpoint wins the day."To whom are we listening? Who's setting the priorities?" said David Lapan, the department's former press secretary.Thad Bingel a former senior Homeland Security official, who helped shepherd outgoing Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen through her confirmation process, echoed those concerns, saying that when it's not clear who's in charge at the White House, departments and subagencies "spin their wheels a lot trying to satisfy multiple masters."Raising the stakes further is that Kushner is no mere White House aide — he's the president's son-in-law and has proven capable of forcing staff turnover at the highest level. He was instrumental in the departure of two chiefs of staff and the president's former chief strategist.Kushner's latest efforts on immigration date to early January, when Trump asked him to pursue a deal with lawmakers that would win the president more money for his border wall during the government shutdown.While White House officials caution that the plan has yet to be finalized, aides said it would include "merit based" changes to the legal immigration system as well as proposals on border security that could include modernizing ports of entry and changing the way the country detains and removes people who enter the country illegally.As part of that effort, Kushner has convened a series of informal listening sessions with almost 50 groups, including anti-immigration advocates, business and conservative groups coming together to talk through ideas. It was the same playbook he used last year on criminal justice reform, which culminated in the only major piece of bipartisan legislation the president has signed.During those meetings, Kushner was been careful not to tip his hat on his personal views. But participants say they expect the plan to include significant changes, including increases in employment-based green cards. While protections for the hundreds of thousands of so-called Dreamers brought to the country illegally as children were a major point of discussion, a senior administration official said Dreamers are not currently part of the plan.Jessica Vaughn, director of policy studies at the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates for lower immigration levels, cautioned that unveiling a major plan now would be a distraction from the immediate border crisis."The timing couldn't be worse," she said. "It's just the wrong time to be getting into a battle over this when the priority should be on fixing the border crisis and getting our enforcement on track."___Associated Press writer Colleen Long contributed to this report.___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — For months, President Trump has been railing about the urgent need for a wall to protect against what he calls “an invasion” of illegal immigrants flooding across the southwestern border. But he has also been delivering another message: “We need workers,” he told a group of activists recently.In other words, he wants more immigrants.“I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally,” Mr. Trump ad-libbed last month during his State of the Union address.Comments like those from the president have ignited furious criticism from his hard-line, anti-immigrant supporters who accuse him of caving to demands for cheap foreign labor from corporations, establishment Republicans and big donors while abandoning his election promise to protect his working-class supporters from the effects of globalism.“This is clearly a betrayal of what immigration hawks hoped the Trump administration would be for,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates cutting legal immigration by more than half. He warned that Mr. Trump was in danger of being “not even that different from a conventional Republican.”Breitbart News, a conservative website that promotes anti-immigrant messaging, published on Thursday the latest in a series of articles attacking Mr. Trump for catering to big business at the expense of the Americans who put him in the Oval Office. “Trump Requests ‘More’ Foreign Workers as Southern Border Gets Overrun,” the site blared on its home page.“That Mr. Trump would advance the interests of the global elite ahead of our citizens would be a tragic reversal on any day,” Lou Dobbs, the Fox Business Network host, said in a televised rant against the president on Wednesday evening. “The White House has simply lost its way.”Corporations and influential corporate conservatives such as Charles G. Koch and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have long urged the president to help them recruit the talent they need by expanding the number of workers who can enter the United States from other countries.That has become more urgent as the economy has improved and as declining unemployment has made it harder for companies to find workers. To assuage their concerns, Mr. Trump has increasingly tailored his immigration talking points to cater to the needs of business executives like those who attended a business round table on Wednesday at the White House.“We’re going to have a lot of people coming into the country. We want a lot of people coming in. And we need it,” Mr. Trump said as he sat next to Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, and other executives. “We want to have the companies grow, and the only way they’re going to grow is if we give them the workers, and the only way we’re going to have the workers is to do exactly what we’re doing.”But that message runs counter to the hard-line immigration image that Mr. Trump has carefully nurtured — most recently by shutting the government down for 35 days in a failed attempt to pressure Congress to fund a wall on the Mexican border.Mr. Trump won the White House in no small part by embracing anti-immigrant messaging that tapped into the economic fears of blue-collar workers upset about losing their jobs to foreign workers. Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, he attacked undocumented immigrants as “rapists and murderers” and called for a “big, beautiful wall” along the border with Mexico.Since becoming president, Mr. Trump has aggressively sought to crack down on illegal border crossings, increase deportations, cut the number of refugees allowed into the United States and make it harder for migrants to claim asylum. He has complained about drug dealers, gangs and members of Central American caravans pouring across the border. And last summer, his administration separated thousands of migrant children from their parents in an effort to deter Central American families from trying to seek refuge in the United States.The harsh record — and comments by Mr. Trump that disparaged African nations in vulgar terms and suggested that Haitian immigrants “all have AIDS” — has earned him the enmity of Democrats and immigration activists, who call him a racist president.It is unclear whether Mr. Trump will follow through on his recent, pro-business messaging. Many of the president’s aides — including Stephen Miller, his top immigration adviser in the White House — agree with the hard-line activists about the need to lower legal immigration.In 2017, Mr. Trump endorsed the Raise Act, a Republican Senate bill that would reduce legal immigration by as much as 50 percent. And the administration is currently considering a proposal to cut immigration by denying work authorizations, known as H-4 permits, to almost 100,000 spouses of immigrants who are brought in by companies to work legally in the United States.But even so, some of the nation’s most hard-line anti-immigration activists have become increasingly nervous that Mr. Trump might waver on their primary concern — the need to shrink the number of immigrants who enter the United States each year, currently 1.1 million.They argue that tight labor markets make it exactly the wrong time to allow more foreign workers to compete with Americans. Chris Chmielenski, the deputy director of NumbersUSA, which lobbies for lower legal immigration, said companies should be pressured to hire more Americans instead.“Anything we do now to bring in more foreign workers could actually reverse some of the economic gains over the last four years,” Mr. Chmielenski said. “We’re absolutely concerned. We feel this isn’t how he ran on the issue.”Last week, in an effort to communicate that message directly to Mr. Trump, NumbersUSA began airing an ad on Fox News Channel in the hopes that the president would get the message that his supporters do not want to let in more than one million immigrants each year.“The majority of voters say the number should be cut to 500,000 or less,” the ad said. “Americans want less immigration.”Mr. Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said that companies that no longer have access to foreign workers would have no choice but to turn to Americans who are still struggling to find work: people with disabilities, teenagers, older people and even former convicts.He also said that modest increases in wages for workers would evaporate if companies were allowed to simply tap an unlimited pool of lower-paid workers from other countries.“If you want wages to go up,” Mr. Krikorian said, “you don’t import more foreign labor.”Business groups dispute that analysis. They argue that immigration expands the amount of business activity in the United States, adding jobs and increasing wages for the vast majority of American workers.“Our country has benefited tremendously from welcoming people who have contributed to our economy, our communities, across the board,” said James Davis, a spokesman for the Koch network. “We want to welcome in everyone who wants to contribute to our society. We want to see more legal immigration.”Todd Schulte, the president of FWD.us, a pro-immigration advocacy group that started with backing from Mark Zuckerberg, a founder of Facebook, said that “immigrants and immigration increase economic growth, they increase economic productivity and they increase wages for the overwhelming number of native-born Americans.”Mr. Schulte, whose group has been highly critical of Mr. Trump’s anti-immigrant messaging and policies, welcomed the president’s recognition that legal immigration is a positive thing for the United States’ economy.But he cautioned that Mr. Trump must be measured by his actions, not his words. He called on the president to halt the effort to deny the H-4 work permits to immigrant spouses.“He should stop trying to revoke the H-4 rule,” Mr. Schulte said. “Increasing legal immigration would help native-born Americans. Unfortunately, the record has been one bent on cutting overall immigration levels.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesPresident Trump delivered an address to the nation on Tuesday night from the Oval Office to make a broad-based public push for border wall funding.After his speech, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leaders, delivered a response from Capitol Hill.[Read our live analysis and fact checks of the remarks here.]The following are transcripts of both Mr. Trump’s speech and the Democratic rebuttal, as prepared by The New York Times.__________PRESIDENT TRUMP: My fellow Americans, tonight I’m speaking to you because there is a growing humanitarian and security crisis at our southern border.Every day, Customs and Border Protection agents encounter thousands of illegal immigrants trying to enter our country. We are out of space to hold them, and we have no way to promptly return them back home to their country. America proudly welcomes millions of lawful immigrants who enrich our society and contribute to our nation, but all Americans are hurt by uncontrolled illegal migration.It strains public resources and drives down jobs and wages. Among those hardest hit are African-Americans and Hispanic-Americans. Our southern border is a pipeline for vast quantities of illegal drugs including meth, heroin, cocaine, and fentanyl. Every week, 300 of our citizens are killed by heroin alone. Ninety percent of which floods across from our southern border. More Americans will die from drugs this year than were killed in the entire Vietnam War.In the last two years, ICE officers made 266,000 arrests of aliens with criminal records including those charged or convicted of 100,000 assaults, 30,000 sex crimes, and 4,000 violent killings. Over the years, thousands of Americans have been brutally killed by those who illegally entered our country and thousands more lives will be lost if we don’t act right now.This is a humanitarian crisis. A crisis of the heart, and a crisis of the soul. Last month, 20,000 migrant children were illegally brought into the United States, a dramatic increase. These children are used as human pawns by vicious coyotes and ruthless gangs. One in three women are sexually assaulted on the dangerous trek up through Mexico. Women and children are the biggest victims, by far, of our broken system.This is the tragic reality of illegal immigration on our southern border. This is the cycle of human suffering that I am determined to end. My administration has presented Congress with a detailed proposal to secure the border and stop the criminal gangs, drug smugglers, and human traffickers. It’s a tremendous problem.Our proposal was developed by law enforcement professionals and border agents at the Department of Homeland Security. These are the resources they have requested to properly perform their mission and keep America safe. In fact, safer than ever before.The proposal from homeland security includes cutting edge technology for detecting drugs, weapons, illegal contraband and many other things. We have requested more agents, immigration judges to process the sharp rise of unlawful migration fueled by our very strong economy.Our plan also contains an urgent request for humanitarian assistance and medical support. Furthermore, we have asked Congress to close border security loopholes so that illegal immigrant children can be safely and humanely returned back home.Finally, as part of an overall approach to border security, law enforcement professionals have requested $5.7 billion for a physical barrier. At the request of Democrats it will be a steel barrier rather than a concrete wall. This barrier is absolutely critical to border security. It’s also what our professionals at the border want and need. This is just common sense.The border wall would very quickly pay for itself. The cost of illegal drugs exceeds $500 billion a year. Vastly more than the $5.7 billion we have requested from Congress. The wall will also be paid for indirectly by the great new trade deal we have made with Mexico.Senator Chuck Schumer, who you will be hearing from later tonight, has repeatedly supported a physical barrier in the past along with many other Democrats. They changed their mind only after I was elected president.Democrats in Congress have refused to acknowledge the crisis and they have refused to provide our brave border agents with the tools they desperately need to protect our families and our nation.The federal government remains shut down for one reason, and one reason only, because Democrats will not fund border security. My administration is doing everything in our power to help those impacted by the situation, but the only solution is for Democrats to pass a spending bill that defends our borders and reopens the government.This situation could be solved in a 45 minute meeting. I have invited congressional leadership to the White House tomorrow to get this done. Hopefully we can rise above partisan politics in order to support national security.Some have suggested a barrier is immoral. Then why do wealthy politicians build walls, fences, and gates around their homes? They don’t build walls because they hate the people on the outside but because they love the people on the inside. The only thing that is immoral is the politicians to do nothing and continue to allow more innocent people to be so horribly victimized.America’s heart broke the day after Christmas when a young police officer in California was savagely murdered in cold blood by an illegal alien, just came across the border. The life of an American hero was stolen by someone who had no right to be in our country. Day after day, precious lives are cut short by those who have violated our borders.In California, an air force veteran was raped, murdered, and beaten to death with a hammer by an illegal alien with a long criminal history. In Georgia, an illegal alien was recently charged with murder for killing, beheading, and dismembering his neighbor. In Maryland, MS-13 gang members who arrived in the United States as unaccompanied minors were arrested and charged last year after viciously stabbing and beating a 16-year-old girl.Over the last several years I have met with dozens of families whose loved ones were stolen by illegal immigration. I have held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief stricken fathers. So sad, so terrible. I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices, and the sadness gripping their souls. How much more American blood must we shed before Congress does its job?To those who refuse to compromise in the name of border security, I would ask, imagine if it was your child, your husband, or your wife whose life was so cruelly shattered and totally broken. To every member of Congress: pass a bill that ends this crisis. To every citizen, call Congress, and tell them to finally, after all of these decades, secure our border.This is a choice between right and wrong, justice and injustice. This is about whether we fulfill our sacred duty to the American citizens we serve. When I took the oath of office, I swore to protect our country and that is what I will always do so help me god.Thank you and good night.__________SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI: Good evening.I appreciate the opportunity to speak directly to the American people tonight about how we can end this shutdown and meet the needs of the American people. Sadly much of what we heard from President Trump throughout this senseless shutdown has been full of misinformation and even malice. The president has chosen fear. We want to start with the facts.The fact is on the very first day of this Congress, House Democrats passed Senate Republican legislation to reopen government and fund smart, effective border security solutions. But the president is rejecting these bipartisan bills which would reopen government over his obsession with forcing American taxpayers to waste billions of dollars on an expensive and ineffective wall, a wall he always promised Mexico would pay for.The fact is, President Trump has chosen to hold hostage critical services for the health, safety, and well-being of the American people, and withhold the paychecks of 800,000 innocent workers across the nation, many of them veterans.He promised to keep the government shutdown for months or years, no matter whom it hurts. That’s just plain wrong. The fact is, we all agree we need to secure our borders while honoring our values. We can build the infrastructure and roads at our ports of entry. We can install new technology to scan cars and trucks for drugs coming into our nation. We can hire the personnel we need to facilitate trade and immigration at the border. We can fund more innovation to detect unauthorized crossings.The fact is, the women and children at the border are not a security threat. They are a humanitarian challenge, a challenge that President Trump’s own cruel and counterproductive policies have only deepened. And the fact is, President Trump must stop holding the American people hostage and stop manufacturing a crisis, and must reopen the government.Thank you. Leader Schumer.SENATOR CHUCK SCHUMER: Thank you, Speaker Pelosi.My fellow Americans, we address you tonight for one reason only. The president of the United States, having failed to get Mexico to pay for his ineffective, unnecessary border wall, and unable to convince the Congress or the American people to foot the bill, has shut down the government.American democracy doesn’t work that way. We don’t govern by temper tantrum. No president should pound the table and demand he gets his way or else the government shuts down. Hurting millions of Americans who are treated as leverage.Tonight, and throughout this debate and throughout his presidency, president trump has appealed to fear, not facts. Division, not unity. Make no mistake, Democrats and the president both want stronger border security. However, we sharply disagree with the president about the most effective way to do it.So, how do we untangle this mess? Well, there’s an obvious solution. Separate the shutdown from arguments over border security. There is bipartisan legislation supported by Democrats and Republicans to reopen government while allowing debate over border security to continue.There is no excuse for hurting millions of Americans over a policy difference. Federal workers are about to miss a paycheck. Some families can’t get a mortgage to buy a new home. Farmers and small businesses won’t get loans they desperately need.Most presidents have used Oval Office addresses for noble purposes. This president just used the backdrop of the Oval Office to manufacture a crisis, stoke fear, and divert attention from the turmoil in his administration.My fellow Americans, there is no challenge so great that our nation cannot rise to meet it. We can reopen the government and continue to work through disagreements over policy. We can secure our border without an ineffective, expensive wall. And we can welcome legal immigrants and refugees without compromising safety and security.The symbol of America should be the Statue of Liberty, not a 30 foot wall. So our suggestion is a simple one. Mr. President, reopen the government, and we can work to resolve our differences over border security. But end this shutdown now.Thank you.AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byPresident Trump will make his case for a border wall on Tuesday night. Here is what to watch for and some of the larger issues the president faces.By Michael Tackett and Linda QiuPresident Trump’s greatest hurdle in persuading Americans that there is a national security crisis on the southwest border may well be his own credibility.Mr. Trump is using a rare currency — a prime-time address to the nation — to make the case for a border wall with Mexico, an issue that has forced a partial shutdown of the federal government.His penchant for superlatives — “the best,” “the worst,” “never,” “always,” and now, “crisis” — and his record of falsehoods, misstatements and exaggerations on the topic will likely be challenged as never before.Here is what to watch for and some of the larger issues the president faces.Mr. Trump will deliver his speech at 9 p.m. Eastern Time. It will be aired by major broadcast and cable news networks and streamed live at www.nytimes.com.Mr. Trump could try to circumvent Congress by declaring a national emergency to order that the wall be built, but administration officials who had seen a draft copy of his speech said the president was not preparing to do so.This would be an extraordinary use of presidential authority. For example, President George W. Bush invoked emergency powers following the Sept. 11 attacks.The rationale for the emergency power is to give the president the capacity to act quickly to deal with matters like an urgent security threat.There are currently 31 national emergencies that are ongoing. The oldest dates back to 1979, when President Jimmy Carter invoked one to freeze Iranian government assets. The Trump administration has issued three emergency declarations so far, most recently in late November freezing the property of certain Nicaraguan officials.Saying a situation is a crisis does not make it so, but Mr. Trump and other senior administration officials have been using the word repeatedly in recent days. They point to a direct connection between the flow of drugs from Mexico and the opioid epidemic in the United States. They say that migrants, particularly women and children, are victims of crime as they journey to the United States. And Mr. Trump has also strongly suggested that terrorists may be slipping across the border.These threats are greatly exaggerated, if not fabricated. Migrant border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades. The majority of heroin enters the United States through legal ports of entry, not through open areas of the border. Immigrants are less likely to commit crimes in the United States than native-born Americans. The State Department said in a recent report that there is “no credible evidence” that terrorist groups had sent operatives to enter the United States through Mexico.Despite all of this, Mr. Trump could repeat some of these statistics, which other administration officials have cited misleadingly.Of the nearly “17,000 criminals” attempting to cross the border — a number used by officials recently — about 63 percent were stopped while attempting to enter legal ports of entry.Of the “10 individuals on the terrorist watch list” stopped daily by the Department of Homeland Security, most were attempting to enter by air travel. And the watch list itself includes people who are suspected of having ties to terrorism — not necessarily those convicted of terrorism crimes.And the more than 3,000 “special interest aliens” who have been stopped at the southwest border refers to people who come from countries that have exported terrorism or who exhibit travel patterns that indicate “a possible nexus to nefarious activity,” according to the Department of Homeland Security. A recent analysis from the libertarian Cato Institute found that of 45,000 “special interest aliens” caught at the border since 2007, none has committed terrorist attacks.So far, Democrats have been highly unified in their opposition to Mr. Trump’s wall proposal. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has called it immoral. Instead, Democrats have demanded that the president immediately end the shutdown and allow Congress to pass funding legislation to keep the government functioning. Only then will they allow a debate on border security.After television networks agreed to air the president’s speech, Ms. Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, demanded that their side be given time.To further dramatize his case for a border wall, Mr. Trump is set to head to Texas’ border with Mexico on Thursday.According to The Monitor of McAllen, Tex., the president’s trip would come about a month before border wall construction in the area would begin, relying on previously appropriated funding. The construction could affect several environmentally sensitive areas. Representative Vicente Gonzalez, Democrat of Texas, told the newspaper that a border wall was not the answer.“I would remind the president that there are 7,500 open positions with Customs and Border Protection that have not been filled, and that this should be their top priority,” Mr. Gonzalez said in a statement Monday. “With updated resources, technology and more Border Patrol agents, Customs officers and agriculture inspectors, we can keep this nation prosperous and protect our citizens from those who wish to harm us,” he said.The crime rate in the city of McAllen has been generally in decline for nearly 30 years.Michael Tackett covers national politics. He has written about politics for more than 30 years and has covered six presidential elections.  @tackettdc Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byWhy immigration rhetoric that worked in 2016 doesn’t work today.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistThe people who didn’t want television networks to cede a prime-time hour last night — or, as it turned out, a prime-time 10 minutes — to the president of the United States were implicitly giving Donald Trump a credit that he does not deserve. There is a kind of silver-tongued orator who can persuade in any situation, who like Caesar’s Mark Antony can find a crowd leaning one way and leave them stirred up for the opposite cause, who is legitimately dangerous when given a rostrum or a soapbox or a prime-time speech. But that is not our president: His rhetoric is a bludgeon, and what we saw last night was just an attempt to club his enemies and critics with the same arguments he’s made a thousand times before.In fairness to Trump, the immigration bludgeon was effective once — for two reasons that played out in surprising ways across the 2016 campaign. First, Trump-the-candidate’s dire warnings about criminals and terrorists crossing the southern border dovetailed with two 2016-specific trends — the spike in violent crime after decades of decline, and the rash of Islamic State-inspired attacks on both sides of the Atlantic.Second, the extremity of his rhetoric persuaded skeptics of mass immigration, long burned by politicians of both parties, that Trump would not betray them. In a political landscape where every year seemed to bring a new bipartisan push for amnesties and immigration increases, his xenophobic style was an effective political marker for anyone with inchoate anxieties about immigration. You didn’t have to literally believe that he would build the Wall and make Mexico pay for it to regard that wild promise as evidence that he would be more genuinely restrictionist and hawkish on the issue than politicians merely paying lip service to “border security.”[Want to join the debate? Follow us on Instagram at @nytopinion.]But the problem for Trump is that presidents have to deal with changing circumstances and cope with unexpected crises, not just fulminate in the same style regardless of the context. And the world of 2019 looks different than the world in which he campaigned. The crime rate didn’t keep rising, the pace of terror attacks hasn’t quickened, and fate has given him an immigration crisis that’s substantially different than the crisis of murderers and terror plotters that he invoked in his campaign rhetoric — a humanitarian crisis, a crisis of families and children, in which the problem isn’t the people that we can’t catch crossing the borders but the people who surrender willingly, hoping to exploit our overstrained asylum system and disappear with their kids into the American interior.A more supple strategist and orator than our president might have been able to adapt his tough-guy proposals to this complicated new reality, and in the process to exploit the Democrats’ core vulnerability — their difficulty figuring out exactly what kind of deportation policies, if any, their base will allow them to support.Such an adaptation would have involved making two arguments in parallel. First, Trump could have argued that 15 years of increased spending on border security — walls and fencing and other barriers very much included — has played a big role in reducing the old kind of illegal immigration, in which single young men cross the border looking for work. My proposed wall, really an expansion of steel fencing, would build on this success, he could have said, and build on policies that Democrats once voted for, in order to make sure the old rates of illegal immigration don’t come back.Then, second, he could have explained the new challenge of family migration, admitted to mistakes (I know, imagine that) in the child separation policy of 2018, and emphasized that he’s asking for more money and various legal and administrative changes to ensure that inhumane conditions can be improved, that families can be kept together, that the system can adjudicate, process and deport without last year’s performative cruelty. He could have even talked about the attempts at deal making with Mexico, the attempt at a bilateral arrangement that our southern neighbor would keep migrants on its territory while they applied for asylum on ours.If you parsed last night’s 10 minutes of presidential words carefully enough you could find fragments of these arguments — but only fragments, shored around an argumentative edifice that was just the same old 2016-vintage Trumpian warnings about how (to quote Vox’s Dara Lind) “immigrants are coming across the border to kill you.”And this “IACATBTKY” argument just doesn’t match up with the news that most Americans consume. There is no rising immigrant crime wave at the moment, no wave of terror attacks by border jumpers, the immigrant caravan didn’t end in bloodshed, and the dominant images from the current border crisis are pictures of exhausted parents and frightened, uncomprehending kids.So what we heard from the president was a play to people deep in the Trumpian bubble, a pledge to his electoral rump that he’s still fighting the fights he promised two years ago even if the facts on the ground require a somewhat different strategy. Where the rest of the country was concerned, including many voters a more effective president would be trying to win over or win back, it was almost certainly just a waste of breath. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Michael D. ShearWashington used to know how to have a serious debate about border security.Republicans demanded more money for Border Patrol agents and necessary fences. Democrats argued for better surveillance technology and more resources at the ports of entry. The two parties squabbled over how much to spend, how to pay for it and how it all fit into the broader struggle to overhaul the nation’s broken immigration system.But President Trump has demolished the decades-old, bipartisan understanding about how to bargain over the border. In Mr. Trump’s world, there are no alternatives that can form the basis of a legislative give-and-take, much as his allies and adversaries might hope for them. For the president, the only way to stop what he calls an “onslaught” of illegal immigrants is to erect a massive, concrete or steel barrier across the nearly 2,000-mile border with Mexico.“Drones and all of the rest are wonderful and lots of fun, but it is only a good old fashioned Wall that works!” he tweeted last month.By conjuring images of a towering stone edifice around a medieval fortress — and branding those on the outside as invaders threatening to bring crime, drugs and disease to the United States — Mr. Trump has transformed what used to be a complicated, nuanced negotiation into a take-it-or-leave-it demand, laced with xenophobia, that has shuttered nearly a quarter of the government for weeks.“He turns a debate that is fundamentally about more or less, measured in dollars, and makes it a debate that is wall or not,” said Frank Sharry, a pro-immigration activist who has battled over border security for decades in the nation’s capital. “It’s become cartoonish.”For decades, immigration has been an emotional and bitterly fought battle in Washington and around the country. But even so, there has been a consensus among most Republicans and Democrats that securing the southern border requires a mix of costly strategies. That included a large number of Border Patrol agents posted at key points along the vast stretch of land from San Diego to Brownsville, Tex., fences in urban areas and barriers to stop vehicles from crossing and high-tech surveillance gear to alert the Border Agents to the presence of migrants and drugs.Until Mr. Trump was elected, the sticking points had largely been about other parts of the broader immigration debate — cracking down on people who stay longer than their visas allow; preventing companies from hiring illegal immigrants; expanding opportunities for legal immigration; and providing status to those already in the country illegally, including immigrants brought to the United States as children.Such a comprehensive deal is completely out of reach now. But Mr. Trump’s behavior during the past several weeks suggests that even reaching a smaller, more targeted agreement on security arrangements at the border is more elusive than ever before.The current government shutdown, which began just before Christmas, is now the longest one ever in United States history. In the 22 days since the government shut down, there have been virtually no negotiations by congressional lawmakers or the White House. There have been no marathon, pizza-fueled sessions in back rooms at the Capitol. Lawmakers have not traded detailed proposals with each other. Mr. Trump refused to give an inch in his Oval Office speech, and has spent more time in an extended photo-op at the border than he has at the negotiating table.It has all left veterans of past border debates exasperated and frustrated.“We know how to secure borders,” said Alex Conant, a Republican strategist who was a top aide to Senator Marco Rubio in 2013 when the Republican senator from Florida helped lead the last major, bipartisan effort to overhaul immigration. “The 2013 immigration plan had what everybody agreed was the most effective way possible to secure borders and other points of entry.”With the backing of President Barack Obama, a bipartisan group of eight senators that year succeeded in passing a comprehensive overhaul of the nation’s immigration system. But the legislation, which passed with 68 votes, prompted fierce opposition from conservative Republicans, who condemned it as amnesty for 11 million undocumented immigrants. It was never brought up for a vote in the House.Still, the Senate legislation was an indication of where the two parties could agree on border security. It doubled the number of Border Patrol agents, from 19,000 to almost 40,000, an increase that even the authors of the proposal agreed was overkill but was designed mostly as an enticement to win Republican support.Senators from both parties also agreed on money for technological improvements along the border. The bill allocated $3.2 billion for drones, infrared ground sensors and long-range thermal imaging cameras to give Border Patrol agents advance notice when migrants cross illegally, especially at night. It also included money for an electronic employment verification system for all employers and upgrades at airports to catch immigrants who overstay their visas.And the consensus included some physical barriers — what Mr. Trump might call walls and others would call fencing. Years earlier, the Secure Fence Act of 2006 allocated money to build about 650 miles of barriers along the border. The 2013 bill, had it been signed into law, would have increased that total to almost 700 miles, mostly along the eastern half of the border with Mexico.Almost all of the fencing that Congress has approved has already been built. In populated areas, the fence is tall and steel or chain-link and designed to keep people out. In other places, the barrier is nothing more than short, metal poles spaced out to keep vehicles from driving through, or low, wooden fences that run alongside pedestrian paths.In 2011, a Government Accountability Office report concluded that despite 649 miles of completed fencing, the “the southwest border continues to be vulnerable to cross-border illegal activity, including the smuggling of humans and illegal narcotics.”The report recognized that barriers have mostly not been built in the vast, empty stretches in Texas, where rivers and mountains as natural borders have prevented cars from crossing into the United States and made the trek by foot difficult, if not impossible. But Mr. Trump seizes on conclusions like the G.A.O. report’s about the continued influx of illegal immigrants at the southern border as proof that he is right in demanding a continuous wall.In remarks to reporters after a meeting with Democrats at the White House earlier this month, Mr. Trump insisted that the only way to prevent immigrants from crossing between the 25 official ports of entry is to erect fences everywhere else.“We can’t let gaps. Because if you have gaps, those people are going to turn their vehicles, or the gangs — they’re going to coming in through those gaps,” the president said. “And we cannot let that happen.”But there continue to be questions about the wisdom of building a wall from “sea to shining sea,” even from inside Mr. Trump’s administration.A different G.A.O. report, released last year, examined the preliminary cost estimates by Customs and Border Protection of what it would cost to extend the wall along the entire border. The report criticized the border agency, saying that the cost estimates did not take into account that costs would vary depending on the kind of terrain where they were built.In recent days, the rhetoric between the two sides has become more strident than ever. Mr. Trump and his Republican allies have pointed out that Democrats supported fencing in the past, though they purposefully ignore the context of those votes and the difference between the fencing that Democrats supported and the all-or-nothing wall that the president has demanded.Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has called the wall “immoral,” cementing her position against it.“At this point, the idea we could overlook the rhetoric and get a deal done is much harder,” Mr. Sharry, the pro-immigration activist, said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ernesto LondoñoRIO DE JANEIRO — President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil said Wednesday that his government would no longer be a party to a United Nations migration accord signed last month, arguing that “not just anyone can come into our home.”The decision is not expected to have any immediate impact because the deal, known as the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration, is not legally binding on the more than 160 nations that signed it.But it may signal that Latin America’s largest nation, which has long been welcoming to foreigners, may adopt a harder line on immigration as Mr. Bolsonaro’s far-right administration gets settled.“Brazil has a sovereign right to decide whether or not it accepts migrants,” Mr. Bolsonaro said in a message posted on Twitter. “Anyone who comes here must be subject to our laws and customs, and must sing our national anthem and respect our culture.”Diplomats spent nearly two years negotiating the migration accord, which sought to lay out basic principles to address the surge in global migration in a humane and pragmatic manner.The 34-page pact called for the collection of better data on migrant movements, the strengthening of legal paths to migration, efforts to combat human trafficking and cooperation to ease the safe return of migrants to their original countries.The compact does not bar signatories from enacting and enforcing their own immigration laws, although Mr. Bolsonaro suggested that it would.“Not just anyone is allowed to enter into our house, just like not just anyone will enter Brazil thanks to a pact adopted by third parties,” he wrote.Immigration policy was not a dominant issue during last year’s presidential campaign in Brazil, which Mr. Bolsonaro won by vowing to take an iron-fisted approach toward violent crime and graft.Yet Brazilians in some communities along the border with Venezuela have begun to criticize the country’s permissive immigration policies. Thousands of Venezuelans fleeing hunger and destitution have crossed into Brazil in recent months.Mr. Bolsonaro did not signal whether his government’s approach to the Venezuelan exodus would change, but he suggested Brazil would continue to embrace those in need.“We will never withhold help to those in need, but immigration cannot be indiscriminate,” he said in a second message on Twitter. “The defense of national sovereignty was one of the cornerstones of our campaign and it will be a priority of our government.”Mauricio Santoro, a professor of political science at Rio de Janeiro State University, said Mr. Bolsonaro was misguided in dropping out of the accord.“There are close to one million foreigners in Brazil and more than three million Brazilians abroad,” he said. “It’s in the national interest to have good global rules to protect immigrants and to participate in creating them.”Mr. Santoro said that the decision would mean little to Mr. Bolsonaro’s core supporters. But it aligns Brazil’s president ideologically with other conservative leaders who have risen to power by opposing multilateral approaches to contentious issues, including climate change and the treatment of refugees.The Trump administration was among the handful of countries that chose not to join the migration accord, which was signed in early December. Other nations that rejected it included Hungary, Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Australia and Israel.People from Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, Bolivia, Chile, Peru, Colombia and Ecuador are allowed to work and become permanent residents in Brazil easily, under a visa accord in force for several years.As the exodus from Venezuela has intensified, Brazil has allowed Venezuelans to obtain work documents and has helped a few thousand resettle from border communities to larger cities with more job opportunities.Follow Ernesto Londoño on Twitter: @londonoe.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFact-Check President Trump cited an array of statistics to paint a portrait of widespread criminal conduct by undocumented immigrants. Here’s the context behind them. By Linda QiuWhat WAS Said23% of Federal inmates are illegal immigrants. Border arrests are up 240%. In the Great State of Texas, between 2011 & 2018, there were a total of 292,000 crimes by illegal aliens, 539 murders, 32,000 assaults, 3,426 sexual assaults and 3000 weapons charges. Democrats come back!Twenty-two days into the longest government shutdown ever, President Trump continued to press his case for a border wall. His tweet on Saturday was crammed with statistics that were either exaggerated or omitted important context. Immigrant prison populationMr. Trump’s figure for the percentage of unauthorized immigrants in federal prisons is exaggerated.Out of the Bureau of Prisons’ total inmate population of 183,058 in the first quarter of the 2018 fiscal year, 21 percent were immigrants, both legal and undocumented, according to a government report. At least 13 percent of the total population, or 23,826 inmates, were in the country unlawfully. The immigration status of another 11,698 inmates was under investigation, while 2,608 inmates were lawful immigrants or had received relief from deportation.The most common crimes committed by these immigrants were drug-related offenses (46 percent) and immigration offenses (29 percent). It’s worth noting, too, that about half of the arrests made by the federal government are for immigration-related offenses, perhaps explaining the high proportion of immigrants in federal prisons. The report acknowledges that it does not include data from state and local prisons, which house 90 percent of all inmates in the United States.Border arrestsMr. Trump did not give a time frame for his 240 percent figure, nor did he specify what the number referred to, which may give the misleading impression that border crossings overall have increased threefold. The figure instead refers to a surge in families attempting to cross at the southwest border. The number of family units apprehended at the border more than tripled from 8,120 in December 2017 to 27,518 in December 2018, overwhelming immigration officials and creating a new humanitarian crisis.Overall, illegal border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades, and in the 2017 fiscal year, border crossing apprehensions were at their lowest point since 1971. In the 2018 fiscal year, however, annual apprehensions did increase by 30 percent from the previous fiscal year.Immigrant criminals in TexasMr. Trump’s figures are accurate, but they need context. The Texas Department of Public Safety did report that the 186,000 unauthorized immigrants booked into local jails from 2011 to 2018 faced 292,000 charges.The caveats: These offenses did not necessarily occur during that eight-year time frame. More than half of these charges were uncategorized. And the charges Mr. Trump singled out did not always result in convictions (238 for homicide, 13,559 for assault, 1,689 for sexual assault and 1,280 for weapons).For comparison, data from the Texas Department of Public Safety shows that some 7.5 million arrests were made from 2010 to 2017 (data for 2018 was not yet available), including 6,161 for murder, 177,000 for aggravated assault, 14,000 for rape and nearly 89,000 for weapons charges. A 2018 study from the libertarian Cato Institute found that in Texas, conviction and arrest rates for illegal immigrants were lower than those for native-born Americans for most crimes.An earlier version of this article misstated the data included in a government report on immigrants in prison. The report does not include data from state and local prisons.Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPresident Trump rained cruelties on immigrants and asylum seekers and now wants hundreds of millions of dollars to address the humanitarian crisis he caused.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.As the government shutdown over President Trump’s demand for border-wall funding moves through week three, the administration is looking to cut a deal with Democrats by emphasizing the deepening humanitarian crisis at the border — a crisis caused in large part by this administration’s inhumane policies, political grandstanding and managerial incompetence.In a letter Sunday to lawmakers, the White House laid out its latest proposal for addressing the border tumult. The administration called for more immigration and Border Patrol agents, more detention beds and, of course, $5.7 billion to build 234 new miles of border wall. The White House also demanded an additional $800 million for “urgent humanitarian needs,” such as medical support, transportation and temporary facilities for processing and housing detainees.Translation: Mr. Trump’s mass incarceration of migrant families is overwhelming an already burdened system that, without a giant injection of taxpayer dollars, will continue to collapse, leading to ever more human suffering.The situation is an especially rich example of the Trump Doctrine: Break something, then demand credit — and in this case a lot of money — for promising to fix it.Late last week, frustrated by his standoff with Democrats, Mr. Trump even threatened to declare a national emergency in order to get his wall built without Congress’s approval — a move guaranteed to prompt a ferocious legal challenge.Any attempt to sell Mr. Trump’s cruel immigration agenda with a veneer of humanitarian measures should be viewed with skepticism. This administration has long held that the best way to deal with asylum seekers fleeing the horrors of their home countries is to increase their suffering upon reaching the United States to discourage others from even trying. There is no question but that the administration remains ill equipped to cope with the fallout from its narrow fixation on deterrence. Migrant children are being piled into holding cells where they fall ill — or worse. The number of detainees at Immigration and Customs Enforcement facilities has swelled to unprecedented levels, requiring periodic mass releases. Without preparation or planning, hundreds of migrants are simply dropped off at bus stations in border cities. The Times found that, in the final week of December, some 600 migrants were unceremoniously released onto the streets of El Paso.Mr. Trump’s spiteful choice to shut parts of the government is only making the situation messier. Immigration judges are being furloughed, further slowing the processing of asylum requests. Border Patrol agents are working without pay, eroding morale. In perhaps the choicest twist of fate, some $300 million in new contracts for wall construction cannot be awarded until the shutdown ends. With Democrats now controlling the House, the president is right to assume that he will need a new negotiating approach. But the answer isn’t for lawmakers to throw good money after bad, or to try to prettify a retrograde agenda with humanitarian trimmings.The Trump administration is asking Congress and the American public to embrace warped logic, that its policies are going to continue and that the only question is whether any money should be spent on measures to ease the suffering caused by those policies. After two years of watching this administration run amok, surely Democratic lawmakers can come up with a better approach.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy any reasonable metric, “mass” immigration is a myth. The reality is that America desperately needs to pick up the pace of immigration for its economic health.By Shikha DalmiaMs. Dalmia is a senior analyst at Reason Foundation, a writer at Reason magazine and a columnist at The Week.President Trump has shut down the government to get money for a border wall that he says will stop illegal immigration. But the fact of the matter is that that’s not all he wants to stop. During the three-day shutdown last January, he demanded a 40 percent reduction in legal immigration, arguing that America has been swamped by immigrants. “There’s a limit to how many people a nation can responsibly absorb into their societies, ” he has declared.He is not alone in invoking this boogeyman. That America is being overwhelmed by a flood of immigrants has become conventional wisdom across the political spectrum, presented in books from, on the right, Reihan Salam of National Review, the son of Bangladeshi immigrants; in the center, Francis Fukuyama of Stanford, whose mother immigrated from Japan; and on the left, Jefferson Cowie of Vanderbilt University, who actually counsels his fellow progressives not to fear more immigration.But by any reasonable metric, the idea that America is experiencing mass immigration is a myth. The reality is that we desperately need to pick up the pace of immigration to maintain our work force and economic health.You could argue that mass immigration — a vague term with no set definition — is happening in Lebanon and Jordan, primary destinations for refugees escaping Syria’s civil war. Lebanon, which had about 4.4 million people in 2010, has admitted in just a few years around one million Syrian refugees, which works out to around 23 percent increase in its population.In America, by contrast, there are about 44 million foreign-born people who now constitute about 13.7 percent of the population, according to the Pew Research Foundation. This is close to the historic high of 15 percent at the turn of the 20th century. Why is that considered a meaningful benchmark? Because at that time the United States, responding to nativist and union pressure, embraced strict border controls, essentially ending what had until then been an open borders policy.Literacy tests were instituted in 1917, and the 1924 Johnson-Reed Act imposed national-origins quotas limiting visas to 2 percent of the total number of people of each nationality in the United States as of the 1890 census. The purpose of this legislation was to cut back immigration overall, especially from Eastern Europe and Asia — and it succeeded spectacularly.Congress finally eliminated these quotas, which had widely come to be regarded as racist, in 1965, and immigration subsequently picked up. But immigration opponents have made the 15 percent foreign-born figure a tipping point, as if it were based on science instead of being an arbitrary historical event. If it were indeed a tipping point, countries would regularly experience a backlash once the immigrant population approached that level. That is far from the case.America’s share of the foreign born ranks 34th among 50 wealthy countries with a per capita gross domestic product of over $20,000. The United States netted five new immigrants — authorized and unauthorized — per 1,000 people from 2015 to 2017, United Nations figures show. Compare that to the figures in two other English-speaking liberal democracies: Canada let in eight (and just announced that it’s going to admit over a million new immigrants over three years), and Australia 14. All in all, the foreign-born are now over 20 percent of Canada’s population and 28.2 percent of Australia’s (more than double America’s figure). And yet they haven’t inspired the sort of public condemnation of immigration that often occurs in the United States. America has also taken in a relatively modest numbers of immigrants over the last half-century. In 1965, when Congress got rid of national-origin quotas, America’s foreign-born made up around 5 percent of the population. Over two decades from 1980 to 2000, this proportion rose to 11.1 percent, from 6.2 percent, not insignificant but not particularly noteworthy.But then the rate of increase slowed to a crawl, rising from 11.1 percent in 2000 to 12.9 percent in 2010 and then barely inching to 13.5 percent in 2016. In other words, in six years, America’s foreign-born population inched up 0.6 percent. Yet the more America’s (modest) immigration decelerates, the more the mass immigration trope accelerates.A good yardstick for whether a country is admitting too many or too few immigrants — beyond the political mood of the moment — is its economic needs. If America were admitting too many immigrants, the economy would have trouble absorbing them. In fact, the unemployment rate among immigrants, including the 11 million undocumented, in 2016, when the economy was considered to be at full employment, was almost three-quarters of a point lower than that of natives. How can that be evidence of mass immigration?The truth is that America is a low-immigration nation. Demographic trends in America point to a severe labor crunch that’ll become a huge bottleneck for growth unless the country opens its doors wider.It has long been clear that the dropping fertility rates of native-born white Americans meant that the generations coming after the millennials were on track to be much smaller. From 2015 to 2035, the number of working-age Americans with domestic-born parents is expected to fall by eight million. Furthermore, the Census Bureau in 2017 quietly revised downward its population forecast for 2050 by a whopping 50 million people from its 2008 estimates, as Jack Goldstone, a political demographer at George Mason University, pointed out. Why? Because immigration from Mexico dwindled after the Great Recession at the same time that Hispanic fertility rates dropped by a quarter as well. At the current rate that America is admitting immigrants, this means that the total work force will grow only 0.3 percent per year. Unless American birthrates pick up suddenly and expand the work force — an unrealistic assumption given that the country just set a record for low fertility — or the productivity of its dwindling work force quickly doubled, only slightly less unrealistic, says Mr. Goldstone, the United States will be staring at real G.D.P. growth of less than 1.6 percent per year in less than a decade, all else remaining equal.America should be admitting a million more immigrants per year — more than double the current number from now until 2050. This still won’t add up to mass immigration because it would put America’s foreign-born population that year at around 26 percent, less than Australia’s is today.Fifteen years ago when I was writing about immigration for the conservative editorial page of The Detroit News, the myth that America was being overwhelmed by immigrants had retreated mostly to nativist activist circles. Just because it has spread now does not mean it’s true. It’s a myth that should be killed before it kills the American dream.Shikha Dalmia is a senior analyst at Reason Foundation, a writer at Reason magazine and a columnist at The Week.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON — Immigrant advocates denounced it as cruel. The conservative right howled that it was amnesty.What President Trump billed on Saturday as a compromise to end the country’s longest government shutdown pleased neither the Democratic congressional leaders whose buy-in he needs to strike a deal nor the core supporters whose backing has always been at the heart of his insistence on a border wall.Instead, in offering temporary protections for about one million immigrants at risk of deportation in exchange for funding for a wall, Mr. Trump did something rarely seen during his presidency. He tried to reach beyond his base of supporters — which polls have begun to show is losing patience with him as the partial shutdown drags into its fifth week — and speak to a broader swath of Americans.The Saturday afternoon speech from the West Wing was an attempt by Mr. Trump to, at the very least, shift the narrative of the past several weeks and show that rather than spoiling for a longer shutdown fight or making unreasonable demands, he was looking for a broadly acceptable way out of a morass he once boasted he was proud to wade into.“I think you could tell by the president’s remarks today,” Vice President Mike Pence said, “that we’re reaching out.”Yet in seeking to inch toward the center, Mr. Trump alienated portions of his hard-right base, the core supporters he most depends on and the group he and his closest aides have most feared losing. That raised the possibility that, in his zeal to get out of an intractable situation, he may have landed himself in the worst of all worlds, without a clear solution or the support of his most ardent followers.[Read: Trump’s Deal Meets With Skepticism Among Immigrants in Texas]The tensions and anger over the policy have been quietly playing out in the West Wing as well, as Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, fended off Stephen Miller, the architect of much of Mr. Trump’s immigration agenda. Mr. Kushner has long been a proponent of protections for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, while Mr. Miller has pressed for aggressive measures to crack down on both legal and illegal immigration.In recent days, as White House officials had been working out the details of the compromise, Mr. Miller intervened to narrow the universe of immigrants who would receive protection, according to people familiar with the internal discussions who described them on the condition of anonymity.While the original idea had been to include protections for as many as 1.8 million undocumented immigrants eligible for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program known as DACA that protected those illegally brought to the United States as children, Mr. Trump ultimately proposed shielding only the 700,000 who are enrolled.Mr. Kushner conceded in a briefing after the president’s speech that he did not see the proposal as a solution for the DACA program, which Mr. Trump moved to rescind in 2017.“At this moment in time,” Mr. Kushner said, “this is a good path forward.”Many conservatives did not share that view.“Trump proposes amnesty,” the conservative commentator Ann Coulter said on Twitter. “We voted for Trump and got Jeb!” she added, referring to Jeb Bush, who challenged Mr. Trump for the Republican nomination in 2016 and supported a broad immigration overhaul that would have given undocumented immigrants a path to legal status.Still, in the eyes of many White House officials, the prospect that Mr. Trump could use the proposal to shift blame for the shutdown and pressure Democrats to end the impasse was worth trying. Mr. Pence argued on Saturday that the speech was a “sincere effort” by Mr. Trump to break the logjam, and he and other White House officials suggested that the measure could attract enough support to succeed from centrist Democrats fed up with the shutdown and willing to side with Republicans.But such a coalition did not appear to be forming, and courting one bears considerable risk for a president who is most comfortable when he is defying convention, eschewing compromise and being hailed as a hero by supporters who often equate bipartisan deal making with weak-kneed capitulation.The vast majority of Democrats knocked the approach. While many of them have pressed for measures to protect DACA recipients and immigrants living in the United States under Temporary Protected Status enacted when their countries were destabilized by war or catastrophe, most regard the proposal he put forth on Saturday as woefully inadequate. It offers only three years of protections for the DACA recipients and those who hold T.P.S., which the Trump administration has also moved to end for several countries.“This is not an amnesty bill,” Mr. Pence said. “There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal.”That was high on Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s list of reasons to call the plan “unacceptable.”That is unlikely to matter to the president. Despite saying publicly last month that he would be proud to own a shutdown over the wall, and privately displaying confidence that his base would stick with him through the fight, Mr. Trump has been dismayed to find otherwise in recent days.An NPR poll released last week showed Mr. Trump’s approval ratings down and the first cracks in backing among critical supporters, including whites without a college education and white evangelicals.Such pressure from what he has called the forgotten men and women who elected him and chant “Build! The! Wall!” at his arena rallies has swayed Mr. Trump before, including last year, when the conservative news site Breitbart branded him “Amnesty Don” for considering a similar deal that would have provided $25 billion in wall funding for a path to legal status for those the DACA program was created to help. The president ultimately abandoned that agreement, concerned about angering his base and after Mr. Miller and others advised him he should insist on additional immigration restrictions.On Saturday night, Breitbart panned Mr. Trump’s latest idea with the headline “Three-Year Amnesty, Most of Border Remains Open.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — President Trump attacked Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Sunday for rejecting his proposal to end the partial government shutdown, as he and Republican leaders in Congress sought to put Democrats on defense, a place they have rarely been during the shutdown stalemate.In a series of morning tweets, Mr. Trump said Ms. Pelosi had behaved “so irrationally” in spurning his offer to restore the temporary protections he took away from some undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border wall. He also pushed back against conservative critics who called the plan amnesty for immigrants who came to the United States illegally.Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, plans to bring up legislation as early as Tuesday that would wrap Mr. Trump’s proposal into a broader package that would include billions of dollars in disaster relief and immediately reopen the government, an aide said. The move is intended to ratchet up pressure on Democrats, who have insisted they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump until the shutdown is over.“President Trump has put forward a serious and reasonable offer to reform parts of our broken immigration system and reopen government,” Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republican leader, said on Twitter. “The moment now turns to Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer. The country is watching.”But there was little indication from Democrats, who have denounced Mr. Trump’s plan as “hostage taking,” that they would abandon that position.“If he opens up the government, we’ll discuss whatever he offers, but hostage taking should not work,” Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, told reporters in New York on Sunday, adding, “It’s very hard to negotiate when a gun is held to your head.”With the shutdown now in its fifth week, and 800,000 federal employees still furloughed or working without pay, pressure is rising on both Republicans and Democrats to end it. If it lasts until Friday, Congress will be forced to reckon with another grim milestone: Affected workers will miss their second paycheck.[Read: Trump’s Deal Meets With Skepticism Among Immigrants in Texas]As Republicans go on offense in the Senate, Democrats will stay on offense in the House, where they have already passed a string of government funding bills that Mr. McConnell — who has largely remained on the sidelines during the shutdown debate — has refused to take up. On Wednesday, Ms. Pelosi plans to bring up a package of six bills to fund shuttered government agencies, ignoring Mr. Trump’s requests.The measures gained approval last year from Republicans on the House and Senate Appropriations Committees; in effect, Ms. Pelosi will be daring Republicans to vote against their own legislation. Democrats will also begin talking more about their own vision for border security — a shift in strategy for a party that has focused mostly on the economic and personal toll of the shutdown.Amid the posturing, however, there were some hints that Mr. Trump’s proposal, which he unveiled in a 13-minute White House address on Saturday, might open the door to talks that could result in a deal. Vice President Mike Pence, in an appearance on “Fox News Sunday,” suggested that Mr. Trump’s proposal might be amended on the Senate floor.“Well, of course,” Mr. Pence said, when the host, Chris Wallace, asked if he was open to negotiation. “The legislative process is a negotiation.”And Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, a centrist Democrat, described Mr. Trump’s plan as “a starting point” on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” though he added, “You’ve got to start by reopening the government.”The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected.Polls show the public largely blames Mr. Trump for the shutdown, and his advisers have been searching for an exit strategy. Last week, Mr. McConnell told Mr. Trump, Mr. Pence and White House advisers that he needed the president to put forth a public offer so he could bring legislation to the floor.“McConnell’s view of shutdowns is when you’re in one, it’s a great opportunity for both sides to get things,” said Scott Jennings, a Republican strategist and former McConnell aide who remains close to him. “And what I think is dumbfounding everyone here is: Why aren’t the Democrats treating it as a situation where they could get something? The president has opened the door for them to get something, so let’s talk.”Throughout his administration, Mr. Trump has sought to limit both legal and illegal immigration. Last year, he moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, which shielded from deportation hundreds of thousands of young unauthorized immigrants known as Dreamers. He also revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., for some undocumented immigrants from Latin American and African countries.In the plan he unveiled on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore the DACA and T.P.S. protections for three years. But Democrats say that is a nonstarter, because it does not offer a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers, and because Mr. Trump is simply giving back protections that he himself took away.The McConnell aide, Don Stewart, said the Republican legislative package would include seven appropriations bills that would fund government agencies that have been partially closed for a month.“The legislation that the majority leader will bring to the floor this week would both reopen the remaining portions of the government, fund disaster relief, fund border security and address immigration issues that both Republicans and Democrats would like to address — all in one bill,” Mr. Stewart said.Mr. McConnell would need votes from all Republicans and seven Democrats for the package to pass. But only a handful of Democrats in Republican-leaning states might feel pressured enough to cross the aisle. A spokesman for one of them, Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, said Mr. Manchin — who just won re-election — would remain undecided on the Republican proposal until he saw it.In broadening the package beyond Mr. Trump’s plan, Mr. McConnell may be trying to pick up additional Democrats — especially those who are eager to vote for disaster relief.“He’s starting to move the pieces around to see what’s going to fly and what’s not going to make it,” said Jim Manley, who was a top aide to Harry Reid, the former Democratic leader from Nevada. “He’s trying to put the pressure back on Democrats, and he’s trying to see what the possibilities of a deal are by putting a larger package there. He’s trying to see how large the package has to be to bring Democrats on board.”But Mr. Trump seemed to be holding fast. He retweeted a series of endorsements of his proposal from Republican lawmakers on Sunday evening, and earlier in the day, he took aim at Ms. Pelosi and pushed back against conservative critics who have described the plan as amnesty for undocumented immigrants.“Nancy Pelosi and some of the Democrats turned down my offer yesterday before I even got up to speak,” Mr. Trump wrote. “They don’t see crime & drugs, they only see 2020 — which they are not going to win. Best economy! They should do the right thing for the Country & allow people to go back to work.”Mr. Trump went on: “Nancy Pelosi has behaved so irrationally & has gone so far to the left that she has now officially become a Radical Democrat. She is so petrified of the ‘lefties’ in her party that she has lost control...And by the way, clean up the streets in San Francisco, they are disgusting!”And to his conservative critics, Mr. Trump wrote: “No, Amnesty is not a part of my offer. It is a 3 year extension of DACA. Amnesty will be used only on a much bigger deal, whether on immigration or something else. Likewise there will be no big push to remove the 11,000,000 plus people who are here illegally — but be careful Nancy!”Ms. Pelosi took to Twitter to strike back. “@realdonaldtrump, 800,000 Americans are going without pay. Re-open the government, let workers get their paychecks and then we can discuss how we can come together to protect the border,” she wrote, using the hashtag #EndTheShutdown.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhy a brave Democrat should make the case for vastly expanding immigration. By Farhad ManjooOpinion ColumnistThe internet expands the bounds of acceptable discourse, so ideas considered out of bounds not long ago now rocket toward widespread acceptability. See: cannabis legalization, government-run health care, white nationalism and, of course, the flat-earthers. Yet there’s one political shore that remains stubbornly beyond the horizon. It’s an idea almost nobody in mainstream politics will address, other than to hurl the label as a bloody cudgel.I’m talking about opening up America’s borders to everyone who wants to move here.Imagine not just opposing President Trump’s wall but also opposing the nation’s cruel and expensive immigration and border-security apparatus in its entirety. Imagine radically shifting our stance toward outsiders from one of suspicion to one of warm embrace. Imagine that if you passed a minimal background check, you’d be free to live, work, pay taxes and die in the United States. Imagine moving from Nigeria to Nebraska as freely as one might move from Massachusetts to Maine.[Farhad Manjoo answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]There’s a witheringly obvious moral, economic, strategic and cultural case for open borders, and we have a political opportunity to push it. As Democrats jockey for the presidency, there’s room for a brave politician to oppose President Trump’s racist immigration rhetoric not just by fighting his wall and calling for the abolishment of I.C.E. but also by making a proactive and affirmative case for the vast expansion of immigration.It would be a change from the stale politics of the modern era, in which both parties agreed on the supposed wisdom of “border security” and assumed that immigrants were to be feared. As an immigrant, this idea confounds me. My family came to the United States from our native South Africa in the late 1980s. After jumping through lots of expensive and confusing legal hoops, we became citizens in 2000. Obviously, it was a blessing: In rescuing me from a society in which people of my color were systematically oppressed, America has given me a chance at liberty.But why had I deserved that chance, while so many others back home — because their parents lacked certain skills, money or luck — were denied it?When you see the immigration system up close, you’re confronted with its bottomless unfairness. The system assumes that people born outside our borders are less deserving of basic rights than those inside. My native-born American friends did not seem to me to warrant any more dignity than my South African ones; according to this nation’s founding documents, we were all created equal. Yet by mere accident of geography, some were given freedom, and others were denied it.“When you start to think about it, a system of closed borders begins to feel very much like a system of feudal privilege,” said Reece Jones, a professor of geography at the University of Hawaii who argues that Democrats should take up the mantle of open borders. “It’s the same idea that there’s some sort of hereditary rights to privilege based on where you were born.”I admit the politics here are perilous. Although America’s borders were open for much of its history — if your ancestors came here voluntarily, there’s a good chance it was thanks to open borders — restrictions on immigration are now baked so deeply into our political culture that any talk of loosening them sparks anger.People worry that immigrants will bring crime, even though stats show immigrants are no more dangerous than natives. People worry they’ll take jobs away from native workers, even though most studies suggests that immigration is a profound benefit to the economy, and there’s little evidence it hurts native workers. And if we worry that they’ll hoover up welfare benefits, we can impose residency requirements for them.But these are all defensive arguments, and when you’re on defense, you’re losing. For opponents of the president’s xenophobic policies, a better plan is to make the affirmative case for a lot more immigrants.Economically and strategically, open borders isn’t just a good plan — it’s the only chance we’ve got. America is an aging nation with a stagnant population. We have ample land to house lots more people, but we are increasingly short of workers. And on the global stage, we face two colossi — India and China — which, with their billions, are projected to outstrip American economic hegemony within two decades.How will we ever compete with such giants? The same way we always have: by inviting the world’s most enthusiastic and creative people — including the people willing to walk here, to risk disease and degradation and death to land here — to live out their best life under liberty.A new migrant caravan is forming in Honduras, and the president is itching for the resulting political fight. Here’s hoping Democrats respond with creativity and verve. Not just “No wall.” Not just “Abolish ICE.” Instead: “Let them in.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Farhad Manjoo became an opinion columnist for The Times in 2018. Before that, he wrote the State of the Art column. He is the author of “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.”  @fmanjoo • Facebook AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanSAN ANTONIO — Donald J. Trump got Brenda Hernandez’s hopes up in 2016 when he indicated that he had a heart for young undocumented immigrants like her, who were brought into the country by their parents. But her hopes were dashed when Mr. Trump became president and ordered an end to the federal program known as DACA that shields her from deportation.After the president’s latest announcement on Saturday — that he was proposing to end the standoff over the partial government shutdown by, among other things, temporarily extending that shield — Ms. Hernandez just shrugged.“I don’t trust Trump — I don’t believe him,” she said as she hoisted her 3-year-old son onto a swivel chair at the D & H Beauty Salon in San Antonio. The blue-collar shop, with rows of wooden chairs in the waiting area, is a favorite among immigrants in the city. But in the hours after Mr. Trump’s White House address, his latest offer of an immigration deal was finding little support.[Read: In Trump’s Immigration Announcement, A Compromise Snubbed All Around]In exchange for $5.7 billion to erect a barrier along the border with Mexico, Mr. Trump said he would agree to extend protection for three years for the roughly 800,000 immigrants who benefit from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which covers people brought into the country illegally as children. The president held out the hope of similar relief for 300,000 immigrants living in the United States with temporary protected status, known as T.P.S., after fleeing earthquakes and other disasters in their own countries.“I am here today to break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward to end the government shutdown and solve the crisis along the southern border,” Mr. Trump said, calling his offer “a common-sense compromise both parties can embrace.”But many of the clients waiting their turn for a $6 haircut or shave at the D & H salon, in a strip mall in the northern part of the city, greeted Mr. Trump’s announcement with skepticism, if not downright indifference. Most expressed deep reservations about a border wall, deeming it a waste of money.Eliseo Castillo, 60, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, said an extension of DACA’s protections from deportation, and its offer of work permits, could benefit his 26-year-old son. He said his son had relied on the program for years to get a driver’s license and a job and to live without the fear that even a minor misstep, like driving with a broken taillight, could land him in deportation proceedings.But Mr. Castillo, a construction contractor who relies on a steady flow of workers from Latin America, said he wondered what would happen to his business if a reinforced border wall halted the flow of workers. He said he is already having trouble hiring enough laborers.“The fact is, there is not an American who wants to mix cement, do carpentry and heavy work,” said Mr. Castillo, who employs 18 people to lay down foundations for houses in San Antonio’s expansive subdivisions.Mr. Castillo, who wears cowboy boots and bluejeans and keeps his silver hair in a braid, has called Texas home since the 1980s. But he harbors no illusions about legalizing his status, at least as long as Mr. Trump holds the highest office in the land.Waiting his turn for a haircut in paint-splattered trousers that gave away how he earns his living, Jose Ramos, 63, a naturalized American born in Mexico, said he had no faith that Mr. Trump, whose “favorite sport is blaming immigrants for everything, which is not right,” would ever keep his word.“This isn’t a deal,” Mr. Ramos said. “Trump is just offering to give back what he already took away.”Democrats in Washington have criticized the president for offering to extend DACA and T.P.S. protections, when it was he who had ordered those protections revoked. Some have called the offer a nonstarter because it did not include any long-term solutions, like a path to permanent legal status or citizenship for DACA recipients, who are known as Dreamers.But many people in San Antonio never had much faith that such solutions were even possible with Mr. Trump as president.Indeed, some in the city wonder how much the president knows about the border.Speaking with reporters on Saturday, Mr. Trump cited the city as a place that had benefited from building a border barrier. “You look at San Antonio, you look at so many different places, they go from one of the most unsafe cities in the country to one of the safest cities, immediately, immediately,” he said.But San Antonio is 150 miles from the border, and has no wall.Alicia Alaniz, 47, the stylist working at station 7 in the salon, rolled her eyes and said that the only thing she could agree with in Mr. Trump’s statement was the notion that the immigration system was “broken.”“We need immigration reform — it would benefit the country and everyone who lives here,” said Ms. Alaniz, a legal permanent resident who emigrated from Mexico. People just want to work the right way, and support this country that has brought them many blessings.”President Obama introduced DACA in June 2012 as a temporary reprieve for young unauthorized immigrants, at a time when Congress was in a stalemate over immigration policy. To qualify for DACA protection, immigrants must have lived in the United States for much of their lives and meet certain other requirements, like passing a background check and completing high school.On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump vowed to eliminate any program that Mr. Obama had created by executive action, including DACA, a stance that generated deep anxiety among the Dreamers.But in December 2016, shortly after winning election, Mr. Trump softened his position.“We’re going to work something out that’s going to make people happy and proud,” he told Time magazine. “They got brought here at a very young age, they’ve worked here, they’ve gone to school here. Some were good students. Some have wonderful jobs. And they’re in never-never land because they don’t know what’s going to happen.”Once in office, however, Mr. Trump appointed one of the fiercest opponents of the DACA program, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, as his attorney general. Mr. Sessions rescinded DACA in September 2017, but the action was challenged in court and has yet to take full effect, while the courts decide the program’s fate.Without work permits provided under the program, young immigrants would face cascading, and possibly dire, consequences: They would lose their jobs, driver’s licenses and the chance to attend college at in-state tuition rates.Friday was the last day the Supreme Court could accept an appeal and schedule any arguments on the DACA litigation in its current session, and the court let the day pass without addressing the Trump administration’s bid to kill the program. That ensures that DACA will survive at least until the court’s next session, which begins in October.When the administration made its bid to end the program, “I worried about what I would do; I was so sad,” said Ms. Hernandez, who works these days for a casual dining chain known as Zoe’s Kitchen. But with the issue tied up in the courts, she said she has simply had to get on with her life. “Now, I don’t even think about it,” she said.Her DACA permit expires in a year.An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a salon in San Antonio that is popular with immigrants. It is the D & H Beauty Salon, not H & D.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — President Trump, facing a growing public backlash over the partial government shutdown, shifted course on Saturday and offered Democrats a deal: temporary protections for roughly 700,000 young undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a wall along the southern border.But the proposal, which Mr. Trump unveiled in a 13-minute address from the White House, appeared dead on arrival in the Capitol. Speaker Nancy Pelosi rejected it even before Mr. Trump spoke, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, denounced the offer as “not a compromise but more hostage taking.”With the shutdown entering its fifth week and polls showing a majority of the public blaming Mr. Trump, the president’s advisers have been searching for an exit strategy. Saturday’s speech grew out of talks that Vice President Mike Pence and the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, have had in recent days with lawmakers including Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader.The proposal was Mr. Trump’s first public offer to Democrats since the partial shutdown began nearly a month ago. It came after an acrimonious week of tit-for-tat politics, in which Ms. Pelosi told the president he could not deliver his State of the Union address in the Capitol until the shutdown was over, and the president retaliated by grounding a plane that was supposed to take Ms. Pelosi on a fact-finding mission to Afghanistan.In casting the plan as a compromise, the president sought to shift pressure to Democrats — who have repeatedly refused to give Mr. Trump any money for his border wall — to end the shutdown. But Democrats continued to insist they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump over border security until the government reopens.Over the course of his administration, Mr. Trump has repeatedly sought to curb both legal and illegal immigration. He has revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., which offers crucial protections for immigrants, for people from some Latin American and African countries. And he has moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, an Obama-era program that shielded the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation.In the deal he outlined on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore T.P.S. protection for 300,000 people, and said he would allow 700,000 Dreamers to keep their protections for three more years in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border barrier.“That is our plan,” Mr. Trump said. “Border security, DACA, T.P.S. Many other things. Straightforward, fair, reasonable and common sense with lots of compromise.” The proposal, Mr. Trump added, was intended to “break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward.”The speech was the second time during the shutdown that the president addressed the nation about the immigration crisis. But unlike his first address, a prime-time broadcast from the Oval Office that leaned heavily on dark messaging about the dangers of crime and illegal drugs flowing across the border, Mr. Trump seemed on Saturday to soften his tone.He paired the address with his first naturalization ceremony at the White House, a move intended to underscore the idea that he supports legal immigration. And his language was markedly different; instead of insisting on the “big beautiful wall” he promised during his 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump took care to use the word “barrier” as well — and seemed to pare back his vision for it.Calling the wall “a powerful and beautifully designed see-through steel barrier on our southern border,” Mr. Trump said: “This is not a 2,000-mile concrete structure from sea to sea. These are steel barriers in high priority locations. Much of the border is already protected by natural barriers such as mountains and water.”Mr. Trump noted that he had adopted some Democratic proposals on border security. The president proposed $800 million for humanitarian assistance and $805 million for drug detection technology, in addition to funding for 2,750 more border agents and law enforcement officials and 75 new immigration judge teams.In her talking points, issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosi said her party favored “new drug, weapons and contraband scanning technology at official ports of entry,” and “filling the more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers.” Ms. Pelosi also intends to bring up legislation in the coming days that includes an additional $1 billion for border security, including $563 million for 75 new immigration judges and support staff.Even so, Democrats roundly criticized the president’s plan. They were particularly incensed that Mr. Trump’s offer extended protections to Dreamers and T.P.S. recipients that he himself revoked. And they said the deal was a nonstarter because it did not offer any permanent protections for Dreamers.“I think it’s simply more fake promises raising false hopes,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said. “It will fool few Americans because it’s neither serious nor credible as a real remedy for Dreamers.”Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.Some on the right also pushed back, describing the proposal as amnesty. James Carafano, a national security expert at the Heritage Foundation who worked on Mr. Trump’s transition, was among the critics. “Amnesty encourages further illegal immigration, incentivizes the tragedy of human trafficking and undermines our citizens’ confidence in the rule of law,” he said.Mr. Pence, briefing reporters after Mr. Trump’s remarks, said the speech reflected a painstaking process of listening to lawmakers, including rank-and-file Democrats who made it clear they believed that protections for DACA and T.P.S. recipients must be included in a border security deal.And he pushed back forcefully against critics like Mr. Carafano who said the measure amounted to an unacceptable amnesty for undocumented immigrants.“There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal,” Mr. Pence said.But that was one reason many Democrats considered it unacceptable. Other senior administration officials made it clear that part of Mr. Trump’s strategy was to try to drive a wedge within the party between those who want to hold out for a much more generous solution and those who may feel enough political pressure to end the shutdown that they will feel obliged to support it.Noting that Tuesday is the deadline for the government to reopen in time to prevent federal employees from going a second consecutive pay period without a check, Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, said Senate Democrats had a tricky decision to make. He also noted that the president’s ability to declare a national emergency was “absolutely” still a tool available to Mr. Trump to find funds to build the wall if a legislative agreement could not be reached.Now it will be up to Mr. McConnell to put legislation incorporating Mr. Trump’s proposal on the Senate floor.Mr. McConnell — who has insisted he will not put any legislation on the floor unless the president will sign it — spoke to Mr. Trump, Mr. Kushner and Mr. Pence on Thursday night about finding a way forward.Mr. McConnell told the president that before he could bring up legislation on the Senate floor, he needed a “public reassurance” that Mr. Trump would sign it, one person close to the talks said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to describe sensitive discussions.The president’s proposal “strikes a fair compromise by incorporating priorities from both sides of the aisle,” Mr. McConnell said in a statement after Mr. Trump’s speech.If Mr. McConnell does indeed put a bill on the floor, as the president said he would, Senate Democrats will have to decide whether to block it or let it come up for a vote. Despite Democrats’ vow to reject the measure, it could create an opening for negotiations between the two sides.The shutdown stalemate is creating increasing nervousness on Capitol Hill, especially among Republicans seeking re-election in Democratic-leaning states. One of them, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, is among only a handful of Republicans who have broken with the president and called for the government to reopen without a border security deal.On Saturday, she praised the president, saying she hoped that Mr. Trump’s offer would “lead to constructive debate that will end this impasse.”White House aides and allies of Mr. Trump said Saturday that Mr. Trump succeeded in ratcheting up the political pressure on Ms. Pelosi, especially if the Senate succeeded in passing a bill.“The Democrats’ talking points have been that the president is solely responsible for shutting down the government,” Marc Short, the former White House legislative director, said. “This puts more onus on them to come back and say why this proposal is insufficient.”But one reason Democrats are so leery of the deal is that they have been down this road with the president before. Last year, Mr. Trump and Mr. Schumer negotiated $25 billion in wall money for a pathway to citizenship for the Dreamers. But that deal fell apart when hard-line White House advisers persuaded the president to back away.The standoff over the shutdown, some former aides noted, was the first time Mr. Trump has had to engage in meaningful, high-stakes negotiations. But even that has come as a last resort, in what some have likened to negotiating out of desperation after failing to score political points.Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTimes InsiderBy Marc LaceyTimes Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.The “lede” is the first paragraph of a newspaper story. It can be ponderous and downright dull. Or it can grab you by the lapels, pull you close and scream into your face: Read this.On the National desk, we began a tradition recently of honoring the “lede of the week.” We scrawl a particularly graceful lede in longhand on a white board that is visible to those coming and going from the newsroom. And we post the winning ledes on Twitter, where they regularly get loads of retweets.The first winner was Tim Arango, a Los Angeles correspondent who wrote an article about how the images of the wildfires in California reminded him somewhat of his experiences covering war:MALIBU — A line of burned-out cars on the side of a road. The charred remains of an old pickup truck, brightened by a pristine American flag draped over the cab. Desperate residents fleeing, cars packed with people and family heirlooms, anything that could be frantically scooped up.We then honored Campbell Robertson, a correspondent in Pittsburgh who wrote this about the dozens of Roman Catholic bishops around the country who have released lists of the priests in their dioceses who were credibly accused of abuse.PITTSBURGH — It was a list Charles L. Bailey Jr. had wanted to see for years: the names of the priests in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Syracuse who had been credibly accused of sexual abuse.Another standout, by Mitch Smith, who is a Chicago correspondent, topped an article on the rash of thefts of baby Jesus statues from Nativity scenes:BETHLEHEM, Pa. — Away in a manger on Bethlehem’s public square, a woman approached a statue of the baby Jesus one dark, December night. Then she stole it.There were so, so many noteworthy ledes in 2018. Take this one from Dan Barry, who teamed up with a number of other national correspondents to document what life is like for migrant children in detention:Do not misbehave. Do not sit on the floor. Do not share your food. Do not use nicknames. Also, it is best not to cry. Doing so might hurt your case.Or this one from Vivian Yee, who was a national immigration correspondent before she went off to Beirut, and Miriam Jordan, who covers immigration from our Los Angeles bureau:The youngest child to come before the bench in federal immigration courtroom No. 14 was so small she had to be lifted into the chair. Even the judge in her black robes breathed a soft “aww” as her latest case perched on the brown leather.This week, we picked a new lede of the week on a story about a death row inmate who committed suicide. It said: “Unlike most death row inmates, Scott Raymon Dozier wanted to die.” We credited the reporter who wrote the article, Rich Oppel, but he came over to the white board and crossed out his name and put that of the editor, Jamie Stockwell, who he said came up with the first paragraph.To produce even more great ledes in the year ahead, I’m going to be convening some of those New York Times writers whose prose regularly shines bright to hear some of their secrets.Besides Mr. Barry, who has collected some of his signature pieces into a book, we’ll hear from Sarah Lyall, who writes for numerous departments at The Times; Richard Fausset, our Atlanta bureau chief; and Jack Healy, who covers rural issues from Denver. We’re also inviting Rachel Swarns, a longtime Times reporter who is now on contract with us; and Ellen Barry, the chief international correspondent based in London, who will be moving to the Boston bureau in the coming months. All of them have produced memorable ledes over the years, and their words of wisdom will undoubtedly result in even more.Do you have a favorite?Keep up with Times Insider stories on Twitter, via the Reader Center: @ReaderCenter.AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byWe are drifting, in the absence of mind and will, toward a moment of civilizational self-negation.By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistIn August 1990, George H.W. Bush met Margaret Thatcher in Aspen right after Saddam Hussein’s invasion of Kuwait. The pair resolved not to allow Iraq’s “naked aggression” to stand, and it did not. This was how the West was supposed to work — and how, sometimes, it did.Today the U.S. and Great Britain scarcely govern themselves, never mind shape world order. Theresa May, who as prime minister resembles Thatcher in no respect other than gender and party, just suffered the worst parliamentary defeat in nearly a century over her Brexit deal. Donald Trump, who as president resembles Bush in no respect other than gender and party, presides over a shuttered government, a revolving-door administration, a furiously divided nation, and a mistrusted and mocked superpower.The West is now rudderless. To be rudderless puts you at the mercy of elements. The elemental forces of politics today are tribalism, populism, authoritarianism and the sewage pipes of social media. Each contradicts the West’s foundational commitments to universalism, representation, unalienable rights, and an epistemology built on fact and reason, not clicks and feelings. We are drifting, in the absence of mind and will, toward a moment of civilizational self-negation.When did the drift begin? Probably in 1989, when Francis Fukuyama published his landmark essay “The End of History?” and a decade of democratic complacency took hold. Why worry about the health and fate of liberal democracy when its triumph was inevitable and irreversible? Why teach the benefits of free markets and immigration — or the dangers of socialism and nativism — when history had already rendered a verdict?And why do the tedious work of preserving the foundations of free government when it is so much more interesting to reinvent it?Complacency breeds heedlessness. Liberals were heedless when they wrote off moral character as an essential trait of a good presidency. Conservatives (like me) were heedless when we became more concerned about the state of democracy in Iraq than in Iowa. Liberals were heedless when they embraced identity politics without ever thinking it could also be used against them. Conservatives (again, like me) were heedless when we downplayed the significance of the populism and scaremongering infecting the movement via talk radio and Fox News.The heedlessness occurred on the other side of the Atlantic, too. European integration is a blessing; integration without genuine democratic accountability and consent isn’t. Similarly, immigration is a blessing; immigration without assimilation is a curse. Two generations of European leaders allowed the former without requiring the latter, and then airily dismissed public discontent as politically insignificant and morally illegitimate. Now they are living with the consequences.As for Brexit, the 2016 decision by 52 percent of the British electorate to leave the European Union over the vehement objections of the 48 percent (details to be hashed out later, if ever), must surely count as one of the worst considered in the island’s storied history. But not as foolish as the decision by former Prime Minister David Cameron to put a foundational question up for a popular vote — just as he had put another foundational question, the independence of Scotland, to a vote two years earlier — without seriously considering the consequences of things going the wrong way.The problem here wasn’t a failure by Cameron and the “Remain” camp to make a stronger case for staying in the European Union, or to read the polls better. It was a philosophical failure — a failure to understand that the purpose of representative government is to save democracy from itself. I now find myself vaguely rooting for a hard Brexit, on the theory that lasting lessons are only learned the hard way.Or not. Bad typically begets worse, and a hard Brexit will most likely accelerate every other fissiparous and dangerous trend in British politics: a new push for independence by Scotland and possibly Northern Ireland and Wales; a greater chance of NATO-skeptical, anti-Semitic Jeremy Corbyn becoming prime minister; Britain’s extended absence as a meaningful and active presence on the world stage.What about the United States? Among many conservatives I know, the view of Trump is that chaotic management, clownish behavior and ideological apostasies are irritants, not calamities, and prices worth paying for deregulation, tax cuts, and conservative courts.Really? These same conservatives spent the past 30 years preaching the importance of judgment, good character, and respect for institutions in the person of the president. They were right. What will they say when they find these attributes missing in the person of a president whose policy preferences and political affiliation they don’t share?The West is not adrift in placid waters. With limited resources but ruthless methods, Vladimir Putin has gone about undermining democracy from Kiev to Kansas. With equally ruthless means and far greater resources, Xi Jinping has raised the banner of efficient authoritarianism as the preferred model of 21st century governance.What does the West have to say in its own defense? Who does it have to say it? And who will fix the rigging and reset the rudder in time for the next squall?Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriPresident Trump came away empty-handed for now after the longest federal government shutdown in American history failed to pressure Congress into funding his long-promised border wall, purportedly to stop an inflow of drugs and crime from Mexico.But he is not done making his case on immigration.On Sunday he rattled off several figures on Twitter about how many undocumented immigrants there are in the United States, how much they cost the country financially and how many had illegally voted in Texas.There were already many problems with Mr. Trump’s assertion that undocumented immigrants disproportionately bring with them more drugs and crime. And several experts said they had concerns with the figures he disseminated on Sunday.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.In one tweet on Sunday, Mr. Trump said that “58,000 non-citizens voted in Texas, with 95,000 non-citizens registered to vote.” He was citing an investigation that Texas officials had publicized days earlier but that Democrats in the state immediately questioned.The investigation, by the Texas secretary of state’s office, said that 95,000 people who were registered to vote in the state had at some point told a law enforcement agency that they were not citizens. Out of that number, 58,000 had voted at some point since 1996.Politicians and voters’ advocates are asking officials to investigate both figures.“Because we have consistently seen Texas politicians conjure the specter of voter fraud as pretext to suppress legitimate votes, we are naturally skeptical,” Representative Rafael Anchia, a Democrat in the state House, told The New York Times.Even if the numbers are deemed accurate, those 58,000 voters could have become citizens before casting ballots. More than 50,000 people were naturalized in Texas in 2017, according to the Department of Homeland Security.“We have a reason to distrust these numbers,” said Andre Segura, the legal director for the A.C.L.U. of Texas. “There’s a long history of these numbers being inaccurate. Voter fraud is extremely rare.”In Florida, the administration of the former governor, Rick Scott, had tried to purge noncitizens from voter rolls in 2012. It started with a list of 180,000 voters based on driver’s license data, according to The Tampa Bay Times. Ultimately, 85 people were removed from the rolls, according to the newspaper.In another tweet, Mr. Trump said that “the cost of illegal immigration so far this year is $18,959,495,168. Cost Friday was $603,331,392.”It is not clear where Mr. Trump arrived at those figures. They track with a tweet from last month in which he declared that the country loses “250 Billion Dollars a year on illegal immigration.”But several experts said those figures were far too high.There is little research on how much undocumented immigrants cost the United States. The highest costs would generally be related to education and health care, but many undocumented immigrants pay taxes and are typically barred from receiving many of the costliest benefits, like Medicaid.No study seems to comprehensively address a net cost, instead focusing on either the costs or the benefits.“They tend to talk past each other, unfortunately,” said Randy Capps, the director of research for American programs at the Migration Policy Institute.The National Academy of Sciences concluded in 2016 that immigration, both legal and illegal, benefited the economy. It said that the average immigrant cost state and local governments about $1,600 a year from 2011 to 2013, but that their children and grandchildren paid far more in taxes than they consumed in public services.Alex Nowrasteh, a senior immigration policy analyst at the Cato Institute, said the highest figure he had seen came from the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors restricting immigration. It has said undocumented immigrants cost the country at least $116 billion per year.The Cato Institute disputes that figure, which Mr. Nowrasteh said did not take into account the economic benefits of undocumented immigrants. He and others have questioned the group’s methodology.“There’s no basis to any of those numbers about the fiscal cost,” he said. “The president’s numbers are even twice as bad.”Mr. Trump also claimed that in the United States there are “at least 25,772,342 illegal aliens, not the 11,000,000 that have been reported for years.”Again, several experts said Mr. Trump’s numbers were too high.It appears that Mr. Trump is making his claim based on a study conducted by researchers affiliated with Yale University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which estimated the number at 22 million.Starting with an estimate in 1990, the researchers modeled how the population would change in future years based on immigration rates, demographic change and deportations, among other factors, eventually arriving at the 22 million estimate.The conclusions of that study, published in the journal PLOS One in September, have been challenged, with some questioning whether it underestimated the number of immigrants who had left the country.The researchers have also acknowledged that their results diverge from existing estimates. Most other studies say the number is around 11 million or 12 million. The Pew Research Center estimated that it was about 10.7 million in 2016. In 2015, the Department of Homeland Security estimated the number to be 12 million.“There’s been no evidence of a new, rapid increase of the population,” Mr. Capps said.William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, said the methodology used by Pew had been vetted over decades.“They have a general sense that what they are doing is reasonably O.K.,” he said of the Pew researchers. “I trust them. They have been doing this for a long time.”Manny Fernandez contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, was confident in his ability as a good-faith negotiator who could find a compromise to end the government shutdown.His pitch to Democratic lawmakers was simple: He told them he was the person who could “land this plane.”Buoyed by his success in helping pass a criminal justice bill, Mr. Kushner, a senior White House adviser, agreed to take the lead when the president asked him to find a way to end the monthlong stalemate. He hoped his experience winning over Democrats skeptical of the Trump administration during negotiations for that measure would produce a similarly successful conclusion.But negotiating a broad immigration deal that would satisfy a president committed to a border wall as well as Democrats who have cast it as immoral proved to be more like Mr. Kushner’s elusive goal of solving Middle East peace than passing a criminal justice overhaul that already had bipartisan support.For one, Mr. Kushner inaccurately believed that moderate rank-and-file Democrats were open to a compromise and had no issue funding a wall as part of a broader deal.“If Jared Kushner thinks there is any daylight between House Democratic leadership and rank-and-file members on this issue, then the extent that he lands this plane it will land in the Alamo,” said Representative Hakeem Jeffries, Democrat of New York.And Democratic leaders like Senator Chuck Schumer, party officials said, did not believe that Mr. Kushner had the power to circumvent Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser to the president. In meetings, they also noticed, Mr. Kushner appeared to prop up Mr. Miller as an expert on immigration, noting that Mr. Miller’s reputation as a hard-liner was out of sync with his reasonable nature.On Friday, President Trump did what Mr. Kushner had privately insisted was not an option on the table: He folded.Standing in the Rose Garden, Mr. Trump announced he was ending the standoff, during which he had failed to convince Democrats to fund a $5.7 billion border wall, and was reopening the federal government for three weeks.It was a stunning setback for the president and for Mr. Kushner, who had told colleagues that public opinion would move to their side and that Speaker Nancy Pelosi would emerge as the one who looked unreasonable and intransigent.Mr. Kushner had advised the president against declaring a national emergency, which would enable him to get funding for his wall without approval from Congress. Instead, he ultimately pushed Mr. Trump toward the announcement he made on Friday, supporting it as a way to buy more time to reach a deal.Mr. Trump, White House aides said, has been frustrated at everyone around him for not delivering a deal he can accept. And he has become wary of his son-in-law’s advice on this issue, the aides said.This account is based on interviews with more than a dozen congressional officials, White House aides and people involved in the immigration debate.On Capitol Hill, aides said, Mr. Kushner had positioned himself as the person who could sell the president on a compromise, casting himself as a facilitator who did not lobby for details of any proposal but simply wanted to find a solution that both sides could claim as a victory.Mr. Kushner has told Mr. Trump that he should spend the next three weeks trying to achieve a broader immigration package. That challenge has eluded both parties for years, but Mr. Kushner has suggested to colleagues that it is worth trying for, according to West Wing aides.The president appears to have internalized the advice. “21 days goes very quickly,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Saturday morning. “Negotiations with Democrats will start immediately. Will not be easy to make a deal, both parties very dug in. The case for National Security has been greatly enhanced by what has been happening at the Border & through dialogue. We will build the Wall!”But Democrats said they do not believe that Mr. Kushner will have better luck drafting a larger deal in the next few weeks. “Unless he’s able to convince his father-in-law to abandon his obsession with building a medieval border wall, then he’s not going to be successful in finding a bipartisan agreement,” Mr. Jeffries said.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, however, noted that Mr. Kushner was still seen internally as one of the administration’s most successful negotiators, pointing to his involvement with the criminal justice bill as well as the new North American trade deal. “Jared is a key player in the administration and will continue helping the president accomplish his top priorities,” she said in an email.But for now, Mr. Kushner appears to have few allies, occupying what people close to him describe as a no-win position.Mr. Kushner finds himself with little sway over Democrats, who consider the substantial changes that the White House keeps proposing for asylum seekers to be poison pills. And conservatives are not convinced Mr. Kushner is the right person to negotiate a deal. They recognize he has Mr. Trump’s ear, but worry he does not understand the fault lines of the debate or what proposals will anger Mr. Trump’s base. One proposal that was reviewed, which would give green cards to 700,000 undocumented young immigrants, enraged conservatives.Within the White House, several aides said, Mr. Kushner is not interested in opinions that vary from his, and tends to view people who disagree with him as problems, closing them out of discussions. People close to Mr. Kushner, however, speaking on the condition of anonymity, have described him as working well with West Wing colleagues, particularly the legislative affairs director, Shahira Knight, a veteran of Capitol Hill.But even Mr. Kushner’s allies concede that when it comes to immigration, he has not grasped the emotional nature of the fight the way he did when he tackled the criminal justice overhaul, an issue that was personal because of his father’s own incarceration.Mr. Kushner, allies said, sees the $5.7 billion request for border wall money as reasonable, and has compared it to one month of troop deployments in Afghanistan. He views Ms. Pelosi as “trophy hunting,” or trying to take down the president politically with the shutdown.Allies of Mr. Kushner say that not all of his discussions with Democrats have been publicized, and that he has gained trust partly because he keeps his conversations confidential. But on Capitol Hill, many Democrats said discussions on immigration have been scarce.Senator Dick Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, was given no notice about Mr. Trump’s announcement last weekend in which he offered temporary protections for young undocumented immigrants in exchange for wall money, according to a congressional aide. Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, heard from Mr. Kushner only once, when he phoned before the president’s prime-time address from the Oval Office to warn him that the moment would move public opinion to the president’s side. Mr. Jeffries, who worked closely with Mr. Kushner on criminal justice reform, had no conversations about forging a bipartisan immigration bill.Some Democrats, however, gave Mr. Kushner credit for at least trying to keep a dialogue going, even if it did not result in a compromise.“We disagreed on the issue, but talking is essential in a divided government, especially if we want to solve any problems,” said Representative Josh Gottheimer, Democrat of New Jersey.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported by‘It’s like someone is running around sticking their finger in people’s eyes and I’m an eye doctor.’By Maeve HigginsContributing Opinion WriterMark Doss, a supervising lawyer at the International Refugee Assistance Project, pulled an all-nighter on Jan. 27, 2017, and his work life has not been the same since. On that day two years ago, his client Hameed Darweesh, an Iraqi who had worked primarily as an interpreter on behalf of the United States government for 10 years, was the first person detained at Kennedy Airport under President Trump’s executive order barring immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries, including Iraq.Images of immigration lawyers huddled together over laptops on airport floors across the country made global news. Nineteen hours and a habeas corpus petition titled Darweesh v. Trump later, Mr. Darweesh was the first detainee to be released. Mr. Doss was able to comfort his weeping client at baggage claim. When you’re an immigrant to the United States, you come to rely on a selection of people you never expected to need as guides. The co-worker who explains that aluminum is both spelled and pronounced incorrectly here, the waitress who advises against ordering that second cold brew and, crucially, the immigration lawyer who can push open the door to a new life, a whole country. I moved here five years ago in a relatively straightforward way, but one that still involved much paperwork, expense and anxiety. Amanda Gupta, who specializes in visas for artists and entertainers, was my lawyer. It’s because of her I get to live my own peculiar American dream, which is to have a comedy career and drink as much cold brew as I can before my heart explodes.That first travel ban, and each subsequent one, made my stomach lurch, as I imagined not being allowed back into the place I belong. And since that chaotic weekend two years ago, I have wondered what life has been like for immigration lawyers — people whose livelihoods depend on getting others through a door that was only ever ajar and is now in danger of slamming shut.As the administration hacks away at immigrants’ rights and rains down policy changes, immigration requests that would usually have been approved are denied, many lawyers told me. They are receiving requests for further evidence that are baffling, with precedents continuously blurring. “Any way the government can have a moment of ‘gotcha’ they do and they will,” Ms. Gupta said. “If they can get you out of the country, they will.” John Khosravi, an immigration lawyer in Los Angeles, agrees. “These past two years it’s like someone is running around sticking their finger in people’s eyes and I’m an eye doctor,” he said. “Sure, business is good, but those aren’t the injuries I want to treat.” On his podcast “The Immigration Lawyers Podcast,” he urges his colleagues to have a Plan B and to save their money for a rainy day. Mr. Khosravi is Iranian-American, and when he started practicing nearly a decade ago, all of his clients were Iranian. Since then, he has diversified and now has clients from around the world. “Had I just been starting out when the ban came down, that would have been lights out, just no way,” he said.For Lauren Blodgett, a staff lawyer at Safe Passage Project, the past two years have seen her definition of success change. She has represented children seeking asylum who were separated from a parent at the border, per the policy put in place by this administration last year. She said that even if her clients are denied a chance to stay in the United States, it’s crucial to her to help them feel heard and even loved throughout the process. “They will remember their case for the rest of their lives,” she said, adding that it’s a privilege to get to do this kind of difficult work. She has sometimes had to tell 8- or 9-year-olds that she honestly has no idea whether they will see their parents again.What, I asked, could one possibly do to unwind after a workday that involved those conversations? Twice a month, Ms. Blodgett goes to a dance party that takes place from 6 to 9 a.m. “We dance and then, some days, I go to straight to court,” she said. “I bring my suit and change in the bathroom.”At the end of our conversation, I asked her whether she ever feels hopeless, and she looked at me surprised, the same way I looked at her when she told me she voluntarily goes to early-morning raves. “This work is an opportunity to turn your rage and anger and disgust into action,” she said.Mr. Doss married last year and spent the days before his wedding finalizing a waiver application for a woman stranded in Yemen because of the travel ban to be reunited with her children in the United States. His wife’s brother, a graphic designer in Jordan, was denied a visitor’s visa, so he could not be with them on their wedding day. “It’s heartbreaking,” he told me, particularly for his new in-laws, but his perspective quickly broadened. “For my clients from Syria or Yemen or Libya who are trying to reunite with their loved ones in the United States, they’re indefinitely banned.” He worries that these separated families have been forgotten about, lost in the mix of everything else that has happened in the past two years.The number of globally displaced people has hit a record high, and last year the Trump administration set the lowest cap on the number of refugees who can be resettled in the United States since Congress passed the Refugee Act in 1980. I asked Mr. Doss what his clients, refugees who have made it through, feel about arriving in a country run by people who do not seem to want them here. “They are often fleeing from governments that have persecuted them, but they have a deep love for the country,” he explained. “So they’re able to separate the government from the people. Most Americans, when they’re face to face, are kind and caring.” The phone line went quiet for a second and I worried we had been disconnected, until he cleared his throat and added, “I think.”Maeve Higgins is the author of “Maeve in America: Essays by a Girl From Somewhere Else” and a contributing opinion writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisement

      By DENISE LU and 
    
DEREK WATKINS

JAN. 24, 2019

Every day, dozens of migrants arrive at the southern border hoping to seek asylum and stay in the United States. President Trump champions a wall as the one thing that could keep them from starting a life in the country. Right now, the big hurdle for many migrants comes not at the border but on the other side.More than any border wall, the wait to have their cases heard is the largest barrier many migrants will face to settling in the United States. Lawyers, advocates and even some judges say that the immigration courts are in crisis.The backlog in the immigration courts has been growing for the past decade, and pending cases have increased by nearly 50 percent since Mr. Trump took office in 2017.Pending cases in immigration court809,041800,000cases400,00020082019809,041800,000cases400,00020082019809,041800,000cases400,00020082019The backlog is made up of all kinds of immigration cases. Most involve people waiting for a judge to determine whether they should be allowed to stay in the United States or should be deported.About one in every 40 cases is criminal or related to national security or terrorism.The rest are civil immigration cases. They can include migrants arrested for crossing the border illegally, people who overstayed their visas and many asylum seekers.Three in four of the pending cases involve Mexicans or Central Americans.Nationalities of immigrants in pending casesMexico161,614pending casesGuatemala158,935El Salvador153,689Honduras121,874India26,511China26,090Others160,328Mexico161,614pending casesGuatemala158,935El Salvador153,689Honduras121,874India26,511China26,090Others160,328Mexico161,614Guatemala158,935Honduras121,874OthersEl Salvador153,689IndiaChinaAsylum seekers tend to come from the Central American countries known as the Northern Triangle — El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras — and they make up a growing share of the backlog. All together, asylum seekers accounted for about half of new immigration cases last year, at a record 159,590 cases.Immigration cases and asylum applications400,000cases305,899total newcases200,000159,590asylumcases20082018400,000cases305,899total newcases200,000159,590asylumcases20082018300,000cases305,899total newcases159,590asylumcases20082018The Trump administration has viewed this increase with alarm, and has said that migrants are abusing the system. As part of broader efforts to tighten immigration policy, officials have sought to narrow the path to asylum and limited processing of these cases at the border. The White House’s most recent proposal to end the standoff over border security and to reopen the government included several provisions aimed at restricting asylum claims.But current United States law says that those who can demonstrate a fear of persecution have the right to petition for asylum — if they can stand the wait.As the backlog has grown, so has the wait time for hearings and decisions. The average case now takes 578 days to complete.Average length of immigration cases578days400days20020082018578days400days20020082018578days400days20020082018Cases that result in relief, like a grant of asylum, last on average nearly three years — or nearly twice as long. That’s partly because these cases are more complicated.While asylum seekers wait, they can remain in the country but are in legal limbo. “No one benefits from this current system,” said Aaron Reichlin-Melnick of the American Immigration Council, a nonprofit in Washington.A long wait can hurt asylum seekers in particular, he said. Cases may be harder to prove years down the line if conditions change at home or if witnesses become unavailable.And where people are forced to wait makes a difference. The White House has sought to detain immigrants whose cases are pending rather than follow a policy Mr. Trump derides as “catch and release.” Under Mr. Trump, parole rates for asylum seekers fell to less than 4 percent from 92 percent, according to a complaint filed last year by the American Civil Liberties Union. (A federal judge in July blocked the administration’s blanket detention of asylum seekers.)Mr. Reichlin-Melnick said detention can be physically and mentally harmful and impede migrants from accessing legal representation, lowering their chances of winning a case. Lengthy stays in detention can drive asylum seekers to abandon their claims and choose deportation instead.Citing the low grant rate in asylum cases, the Trump administration says that many claims are “meritless” and that migrants are abusing the asylum process to gain entry into the United States.Under Mr. Trump, a greater proportion of grants have been denied, but many cases are closed for other reasons, including when an applicant gets relief in some other way.Asylum grant and denial rates100%21%granted38%closedfor otherreasons50%41%denied20092018100%21%granted38%closedfor otherreasons50%41%denied20092018100%21%granted38%closedfor otherreasons50%41%denied20092018About one in five asylum cases completed last year ended in a grant, a rate that has mostly held steady over time.The surge in asylum seekers has added more cases to the overall backlog. But two policies stemming from Mr. Trump’s hard-line stance on immigration are significant contributors as well.A month into his presidency, Mr. Trump rescinded an Obama-era policy that relaxed prosecution for some immigrants who were in the country illegally. At the same time, Immigration and Customs Enforcement ramped up arrests, adding new cases to the docket.Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrestsTrump endsprosecutorialdiscretion14,068arrests10,000arrests5,000Feb. 2017May 2018Oct. 2014Trump endsprosecutorialdiscretion14,068 arrests10,000arrests5,000Oct. 2014Feb. 2017May 201815,000arrestsTrump endsprosecutorialdiscretion14,0685,000Oct. 2014Feb. 2017May 2018Previously, ICE prioritized arresting immigrants with a criminal record, who are often ineligible for relief. Now, anyone who is caught in the country illegally gets a court date. Since the end of 2016, the backlog has grown by more than 293,000 cases.The other major move from the Trump administration had to do with how the courts manage their caseloads. Unlike in other courts that act as independent judiciaries, immigration judges are appointed by the United States attorney general and are part of the Justice Department.Different administrations often shuffle judges’ dockets based on certain priorities. The Obama administration moved unaccompanied children seeking asylum to the front of the line, and the current administration instructed judges to prioritize cases involving families.Although such moves are meant to speed up the most urgent cases, they can add to overall processing times because judges need to reschedule court dates and familiarize themselves with the facts, said Ashley Tabaddor, an immigration judge and the president of the National Association of Immigration Judges.In May, Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, eliminated an option for judges to temporarily suspend immigration proceedings in certain cases through a process known as administrative closure. At the same time, he moved to reopen more than 300,000 cases that had previously been closed. All together, those would stretch the court docket to more than one million pending cases.Immigration courts have been hiring more judges to handle the caseload, bringing the current number of judges to 395. And last year, the Justice Department set a new quota for judges: They each must complete 700 cases per year.Average number of cases completed per immigration judgeCurrent quota of700 cases per judge800 casesper judge49540020102018800 casesper judgeCurrent quota of700 cases per judge49540020102018800 casesper judgeCurrent quota of700 cases per judge49540020102018Since 2016, however, judges have completed 495 cases per year, on average. At that rate, it would take about four years to get through the current backlog.The judges’ union opposed the new quota, arguing that the practice would lead to more appeals and ultimately longer wait times. In addition to the pressure that the quota imposes on judges, Judge Tabaddor explained that some cases simply take more time to process.Along with other directives from Mr. Sessions, judges say they feel pressured to align themselves with the administration’s policy goals of aggressive prosecution. Since Mr. Trump took office, more cases have resulted in deportation.Outcomes of deportation proceedings100%33%allowed toremain inthe U.S.50%67%ordereddeported20082018100%33%allowedto remainin U.S.50%67%ordereddeported20082018100%33%allowedto remainin U.S.50%67%ordereddeported20082018The factors that drove the backlog’s growth during the first two years of the Trump administration show no signs of abating. Aggravating the situation, at least for now, is the partial government shutdown that began in December and halted most immigration court proceedings.By the end of this week, more than 80,000 scheduled hearings will have been canceled, according to data from the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University. People who waited years for their day in court may now have to wait up to four years more.Sources: Department of Justice Executive Office for Immigration Review and analysis of Department of Justice data by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University | Note: Data is for fiscal years. Dots do not represent any order of cases.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Democratic electorate has shifted sharply to the left, taking many politicians along with it — willingly and unwillingly. By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.The most active wing of the Democratic Party — the roughly 20 percent of the party’s electorate that votes in primaries and wields disproportionate influence over which issues get prioritized — has moved decisively to the left. With all the attention that is being paid to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib and other new progressive voices in Congress, this may not seem like news, but we are only just beginning to realize the full significance of this shift.The Primaries Project at the Brookings Institution conducted extensive polling of 7,198 Democratic voters in the 2018 primaries and found that 60.4 percent described themselves as liberal, including 26.4 percent who said they were “very liberal.”In its most recent analysis, Gallup found that from 1994 to 2018, the percentage of all Democrats who call themselves liberal more than doubled from 25 percent to 51 percent.Over the same period, the percentage of Democratic moderates and conservatives fell steadily, with the share of moderates dropping from 48 to 34 percent, and of conservatives dropping from 25 to 13 percent. These trends began to accelerate during the administration of George W. Bush and have continued unabated during the Obama and Trump presidencies.In recent years, the internal pressures to hew to the left, driven largely by Democratic primary voters, have steadily gained strength.They include the determination to oppose all things Trump, especially his anti-immigrant policies, his racism and his religious bigotry; the rise of outspoken, well-educated liberals, many of them young; the #MeToo movement and Trump’s disrespect for women; the Occupy movement; the mobilization of anti-establishment voters by Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primaries; and the consistent exodus of more conservative white voters from the Democratic Party, supplanted by more politically liberal minority voters.The anti-establishment faction contributed significantly to the large turnout increases in Democratic primaries last year. Pew found that from 2014 to 2018, turnout in House primaries rose from 13.7 to 19.6 percent of all registered Democrats, in Senate primaries from 16.6 to 22.2 percent and in governor primaries from 17.1 to 24.5 percent.Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at Brookings, agrees with the analysis that core voters and activist leaders within the party are “moving leftward”:Medicare for All, free college, a universal jobs guarantee, a $15 minimum wage, an expansion of the EITC to the entire bottom half, workers on boards of directors, ending ICE, raising marginal tax rates to 70 percent are all big, bold leftist ideas and appear to be gaining currency.These “big, bold leftist ideas” pose a strategic problem for liberals and the Democratic Party, Sawhill, who published “The Forgotten Americans: An Economic Agenda for a Divided Nation” last year, wrote in an email:In my view, it’s a trade-off between exciting the base thereby insuring higher turnout vs. broadening the base to include independents and Republicans that don’t like Trump.Sawhill argues that if the goal of Democrats is victory, as opposed to ideological purity, they must focus on general election swing voters who are not die-hard Democrats.One key Democratic target, Sawhill observes, is the “well-educated, suburban women, many of them Republican, who voted for Democrats in the midterms.” Once Trump is gone, she continued, “they could easily return to their natural home in the Republican Party.”“Over the longer-term,” Sawhill continued,as millennials and minorities become an ever-larger proportion of the party, it will have a natural constituency that supports a new and bolder agenda, but the concentration of those voters in urban areas that are underrepresented in our electoral system will be a continuing drag on the party’s prospects.The extensive support among prospective Democratic presidential candidates for Medicare for All, government-guaranteed jobs and a higher minimum wage reflects the widespread desire in the electorate for greater protection from the vicissitudes of market capitalism — in response to “increasingly incomplete risk protection in an era of dramatic social change,” as the political scientist Jacob Hacker put it in “Privatizing Risk without Privatizing the Welfare State: The Hidden Politics of Social Policy Retrenchment in the United States.” Support for such protections is showing signs of becoming a litmus test for candidates running in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries.Polling by the Pew Research Center shows sharp movement in a progressive direction on key issues among many Democrats.Take liberalized attitudes on immigration as an example. From 2008 to 2018, the percentage of Democrats who said the government should create “a way for immigrants already here illegally to become citizens if the meet certain requirements” grew from 29 to 51 percent, while the share who said “there should be better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws” fell from 21 to 5 percent.Similarly, the percentage of Democrats who agreed with the statement that “racial discrimination is the main reason many blacks can’t get ahead these days” rose from 28 to 64 percent from 2010 to 2017.Paul Starr, a sociology professor at Princeton, warns against putting too much stock in the ascendance of progressive Democrats. In an essay in the American Prospect, Starr argues that there were “two distinct developments” in the 2018 elections:While progressives have gained ground in long-held Democratic areas, more centrist candidates have won the more competitive districts. This second development will limit how far to the left the party can go. The more the party expands into the suburbs, the more dependent it will be on those relatively centrist votes — and that dependence will become a constraint on the policies that Democrats are able to agree on.In addition, while acknowledging the rise of the progressive wing, Starr pointed out that a separate December 2018 Gallup survey found that 54 percent of Democratic voters would prefer their party to become “more moderate,” while 41 percent said they would like the party to become “more liberal.”Along similarly cautionary lines, David Graham wrote in the Atlantic last November:There’s clear leftward movement among Democratic voters on a range of issues, and there are more progressive candidates running than ever. But this doesn’t amount, at least yet, to the socialist groundswell that advocates pine for and critics fear. The actual policy positions, and number of leftist officeholders, will remain limited — at least for now. What happens in 2020 could be more telling.Graham’s conclusion:The Democratic Party is moving left, but it might not be clear quite how far left for two or even six years. The revolution is coming more slowly than its champions hope and its critics fear.Matt Grossmann, a political scientist at Michigan State, noted in an email that the leftwardmovement is across the board on policy, ideological identification, and values, but remains furthest left on specific policy. The public movement seems to be strongest on race and gender issues as well as any proposal tied to Trump.Women, according to Grossmann, “are becoming a bigger part of the Democratic electorate and more supportive of women primary candidates.”The 2018 primary elections revealed the deepening strength of an anti-establishment insurgent faction, largely young, white and minority urban voters who turned out in droves in Democratic primaries from Omaha to Tallahassee and from the Bronx to Boston.Michael Capuano, a former mayor of Somerville, Mass. and a ten-term member of the House, learned the hard way how much the Democratic electorate has changed. As mayor in the 1990s, Capuano presided over the gentrification of the once scruffy, working class town. Initially, the city was grateful.When Capuano first won election to Congress in 1998, he owed his victory in the 10-candidate Democratic primary to his hometown. He carried Somerville with 7,852 votes, more than the total vote for all nine opponents, 6,253, while losing to other candidates in Boston, Belmont, Cambridge, Chelsea and Watertown.The impact of gentrification is striking.By 2017, 61.2 percent of Somerville’s residents 25 or older had at least a bachelor’s degree, compared with 30.9 percent nationwide. The median household income was $84,722, compared with $57,652 nationally.Somerville had moved from downscale to upscale, not to the level of Brattle Street in Cambridge or Boston’s Beacon Hill, but still many steps up the ladder.In the process, Somerville left Capuano, a white working class Democrat in the mold of Tip O’Neill, behind.In 2018, twenty years after first winning his House seat, Capuano could no longer count on Somerville. Despite his deep roots — his father had been mayor before him — the vote there was a wash. Capuano received 8,423 to 8,286 for his opponent, Ayanna Pressley, an African-American Boston city councilwomen.Pressley swept Cambridge and Boston to crush Capuano, 60,046 to 42,430 districtwide.The same pattern emerged in the widely publicized defeat of Joe Crowley, another 10-term incumbent, by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in the Democratic primary in a House district that straddles the Bronx and Queens.Steven Romalewski, who runs the mapping service at the CUNY Center for Urban Research, wrote me by email that “Ocasio-Cortez did best in areas such as Astoria/Steinway and Sunnyside, which happen to be more white than other parts of the district,” a point he elaborated upon in a story quoting him posted on The Intercept:You can also see that most of her votes, the strongest vote support, came from areas like Astoria in Queens and Sunnyside in Queens and parts of Jackson Heights that, number one, were not predominantly Hispanic, so they’re a more mixed population, and are areas where — this is kind of a term of art — are in the process of being gentrified, where newer people are moving in,Grace Segers, writing in July on the City & State website, noted that Crowley fell victim to gentrification and that force may upend expectations in Democratic primaries throughout Manhattan and western Brooklyn and Queens. And the rise of younger voters who are newer to their districts and unattached to incumbents could power insurgent candidates throughout New York City.David Freedlander, writing in Politico Magazine, captured the unanticipated voting patterns that gave rise to Crowley’s defeat. “Ocasio-Cortez’s best precincts,” Freedlander wrote, were highly educated, whiter and richer than the district as a whole. In those neighborhoods, Ocasio-Cortez clobbered Crowley by 70 percent or more.Conversely, Crowley did best in “the working-class African-American enclave of LeFrak City, where he got more than 60 percent of the vote.” In fact, Crowleypulled some of his best numbers in Ocasio-Cortez’s heavily Latino and African-American neighborhood of Parkchester, in the Bronx — beating her by more than 25 points on her home turf.Jerry Skurnik, a New York political consultant, describes gentrifying communities outside Manhattan as experiencing an influx of “people who really want to live in Greenwich Village but can’t afford to.”This younger, well-educated constituency — predominately but not exclusively white — is hostile to cautious establishment Democrats, especially to older white men, and they are determined to engineer an intraparty cultural and ideological insurgency.The emergence in force in 2018 of these insurgent Democrats grows in part out of the Sanders presidential campaign. Sanders mobilized millions of voters, many of whom did not want the Democrats to nominate a candidate with deep ties to party regulars and to the major donor community.Maps of primary voting patterns in 2016 and 2018 produced by CUNY’s Graduate School of Journalism and the Center for Urban Research show that Sanders beat Clinton in just a handful of New York City neighborhoods. Many of those Sanders neighborhoods are in Ocasio-Cortez’s district and they are the communities that provided her biggest margins of victory.Sanders also carried Somerville in 2016, 12,247 to 9,016, where support for Capuano imploded two years later.If the turnout patterns in the Ocasio-Cortez and Pressley districts are even modestly predictive, the Democratic Party may be changing in significant ways.Tom Kiley, who conducted polling for Capuano, described in an email the shifting makeup of the Democratic electorate in the Seventh District of Massachusetts:Mike did best among older, white, non-college educated Democrats who, for the most part, still described themselves as liberals or moderate liberals.Pressley’s base, Kiley wrote, was overwhelmingly made up of liberal, college-educated, white voters, especially those under 45 who did not have a history of voting in off-year elections. We were expecting what we considered a robust turnout of 75,000 for the day after Labor Day. In fact it ballooned to over 100,000, largely on the strength of this younger white cohort.While the Boston-Cambridge-Somerville district is far more liberal than the national average, Kiley argued that trends there are likely to be replicated in many regions of the country. “These new voters will have a major impact in the Democratic nomination process in many states,” he wrote:The desire for change in general is huge, and Trump is a powerful accelerant. I have to believe these new voters aren’t going to just retreat after electing new members of Congress; they’ll come out in droves in the primaries next year. And they’ll be voting for change.While primary voters are normally predominately committed partisans with a long history of voting, in the Pressley-Capuano contest more than half of the voters had no record of previous primary voting (24 percent) or were recorded as voting in only one previous primary (29 percent).“If the Pressley campaign was banking on turnout, they certainly cashed in,” wrote Maeve Duggan, research director at the MassINC Polling Group, in an article posted on the website of WBUR, Boston’s NPR news station.“Some 106,556 voters in the 7th Congressional District cast ballots in the 2018 Democratic primary, compared with just 61,725 in 2014,” she continued, “and among the district’s 2018 primary voters, only 37 percent had also voted” in 2014 primaries, according to voter file analysis.Duggan and the MassINC Polling Group analyzed the demographics of the first-time voters and found:They were predominantly women and young people: Fifty-five percent were women, and 66 percent were age 44 or younger (including 34 percent who were 18 to 29 years old).The surge of young voters had a powerful impact, increasingthe overall proportion of voters 44 or younger from 25 percent in 2014 to 42 percent in 2018. Combining age and gender, women ages 18 to 29 made up the largest group of new voters, at 20 percent.The new voters, she found, “were more likely to be Asian or Hispanic, compared with the 7th’s repeat voters,” but, she noted, the state’s only majority-minority congressional district “still has a predominantly white voting base.”A July 2018 pre-election survey of voters in the Capuano-Pressley district conducted by WBUR-MassINC makes clear the importance of growing political participation among young voters. The survey found striking generational differences not only on the candidates but on issues.18-to-29-year-olds favored Pressley over Capuano 41-23 while those over 60 backed Capuano 59-28. Asked if they would be more or less likely to support a candidate who “made abolishing ICE a major priority,” young voters said “more likely” by 48-18 while older voters said it would make them “less likely” by 25-23.Both young and old supported a national health care program, but the margin of support versus oppose was larger (90-2) among young voters than among their elders (71-16).In a postelection analysis of the Ocasio-Cortez-Crowley contest, the Global Strategy Group found:White gentrified liberal areas went big for AOC and surged. Younger, white liberal areas contributed heavily to the margin of Ocasio-Cortez’s victory. Ocasio-Cortez won Hispanics.At the same time, according to their analysis, voters Crowley thought he could depend upon — “expected people, especially older primary voters — did not show up.”Joshua M. Zeitz, a historian whose most recent book is “Building the Great Society: Inside Lyndon Johnson’s White House,” argues that contemporary Democratic progressives are not insurgents, but in full accord with party tradition.In an essay in Politico, “Democrats Aren’t Moving Left. They’re Returning to Their Roots,” Zeitz argued thatWhat pundits today decry as a radical turn in Democratic policy and politics actually finds its antecedents in 1944. With the country fully mobilized for war, President Franklin Roosevelt called for “a second Bill of Rights … an economic Bill of Rights” that would entitle all Americans to a “useful and remunerative job,” “the right to earn enough to provide adequate food and clothing and recreation,” the “right … to a decent home,” “the right to adequate medical care” and the “right to a good education.”Sawhill looks at the ideological shifts in the Democratic electorate less from a historical perspective and more as a response to contemporary economic and social dislocation. Among both conservatives and liberals, Sawhill argued, there is “an intellectual awakening about the flaws of modern capitalism” — a recognition of the failings of “neoliberalism, the idea that a market economy with a few light guardrails is the best way to organize a society.” This intellectual climate may result in greater receptivity among voters to more radical proposals.The willingness of voters to support Democrats who are pushing initiatives like these will depend in large part, however, on the ability of candidates to assure the general electorate that their agenda is beneficial to all and not just to favored liberal constituencies. This will be difficult, given the fact that what is being proposed is a much larger role for government, and that those who are most in need of government support are in the bottom half of the income distribution and disproportionately minority — in a country with a long racist history. As a presidential candidate, Barack Obama was able to overcome this barrier twice, but the challenge should not be minimized.I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Christina Goldbaum[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The newly emboldened Democratic-led New York State Legislature waded into the battle over immigrants’ rights on Wednesday, approving a bill that for the first time offers undocumented students access to state financial aid and scholarships for higher education.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has confirmed he will sign the measure into law.The Dream Act is the latest in a wave of state-level protections for immigrants as blue state legislatures increasingly seek to act as a counterbalance to President Trump’s federal immigration policies. These issues are also expected to play a prominent role in the Democratic Party’s 2020 presidential primary, with candidates who are courting liberal activists supporting the state measures.After New York Democrats won control of the State Senate in November for the first time in a decade, protections for immigrants became a legislative priority. They included permitting undocumented residents to obtain state driver’s licenses and reducing maximum jail sentences for certain misdemeanors that could otherwise lead to deportation.“It took us almost a decade to get the Dream Act, and it’s going to take another five, 10, 20 years to undo the damage that Washington is causing our families,” said Assemblywoman Catalina Cruz of Queens, who was born in Colombia and came to New York as an undocumented child.Even as the bill gained passage, the New York Immigration Coalition and other advocates were pushing for lawmakers to “dream bigger” and address issues like expanded funding for immigrant legal services and health care for immigrants.All these measures, lawmakers say, could act as a bulwark against Republican efforts in Washington and the ongoing standoff over the nation’s southern border.“The election of Trump and the fact that he made immigration a central theme of his presidency has made immigration a more prominent issue at the state level,” said Muzaffar Chishti, the director of the Migration Policy Institute at the New York University School of Law. “In some ways, blue states are now competing with each other to provide a higher level of protection to immigrants.”The New York bill will affect an estimated 146,000 young people who were educated in New York public schools but have been ineligible to receive financial aid under federal and state law, according to analysis by the New York State Youth Leadership Council and N.Y.U. Law School’s Immigrant Rights Clinic.“These young undocumented immigrants will work, they will pay taxes, they will buy products, and the greater earning capacity they have the more taxes they will pay,” said Democratic State Sen. Luis Sepúlveda. “This is one piece of legislation where we must get beyond the anti-immigration fervor created by President Trump and see the benefits educating these young people has for our state.”But many Republicans say that the measure diverts funds away from legal residents and comes at the expense of taxpayers.“How am I supposed to tell families in my Senate district that adequate state aid to help afford college isn’t available for them, but it is available for others who are in this country illegally?” said Republican State Sen. James Seward.The move on financial aid for undocumented immigrants comes during a week in which the Legislature and Governor Cuomo continued to make headway on a list of liberal measures that had long been blocked while Republicans controlled the State Senate for most of the last decade.On Tuesday, Mr. Cuomo signed the Reproductive Health Act, to expand rights to abortion. New York’s abortion laws had not been updated since 1970, three years before Roe v. Wade. The measure moves abortion regulations from the state penal code to the health code, recognizing abortion as a public health issue rather than a crime from which the state had carved out exclusions.In passing the state Dream Act, New York joined California, Texas, New Mexico, Washington, Oregon and Minnesota, which have already passed similar legislation offering undocumented students access to state-funded financial aid; a dozen states have ensured undocumented immigrant residents can obtain driver’s licenses; and a handful have provided pathways for immigrants to secure professional and occupational licenses.Only three states have enacted provisions that proactively prohibit undocumented students from accessing in-state tuition rates, and two, Alabama and South Carolina, prohibit those students from even enrolling at a public postsecondary institution.The Dream Act’s passage reflected the Democratic Party’s turn to the left on immigration, an issue party leaders once handled gingerly out of fear of angering some white voters.But Mr. Trump’s incendiary language on race, the increasingly diverse nature of the Democratic voter base and the party’s success in multiethnic cities and suburbs have convinced many party leaders that they are both morally right and on safe political ground when they side with undocumented immigrants.The party’s 2020 presidential hopefuls — including some who once held more hawkish views on immigration, like Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York — are already moving to reassure liberal activists on the issue in an effort to protect themselves in the 2020 campaign.It is a strikingly different scenario than during the 2008 Democratic primary, when White House hopefuls wrestled with whether undocumented immigrants should be allowed to obtain driver’s licenses. Several candidates, including then-Senator Hillary Clinton of New York, were torn between pleasing their core voters and scaring off swing voters in a general election.The center of gravity has now shifted so that few Democratic presidential candidates would hesitate to embrace such measures as providing the undocumented drivers licenses or in-state tuition benefits. The only question now is how best to counter Mr. Trump’s hard-line immigration policies, and the debate has moved toward whether agencies like the Immigration and Customs Enforcement should exist at all.Democrats in the New York Legislature first introduced the Dream Act in 2013, but the legislation was narrowly defeated in the Senate. Since that time, Democrats have included it in New York state budget proposals, only to have it repeatedly negotiated out of the budget.“There is a backlog of progressive legislation that the new Democratic majority can finally prioritize,” said Democratic State Senator Jessica Ramos. “We might not have jurisdiction over immigration laws themselves, but there is still a lot we can do as a state to protect our diversity.”Though the state already allows all students who graduate from high school in New York to pay in-state tuition at the City University of New York and the State University of New York, the Dream Act extends state financial aid to all students who meet the Tuition Assistance Program requirements, opens 529 tuition savings accounts to all New York youth and establishes a commission to raise private funds for college scholarships to be offered to the children of immigrants.Still, the Republican minority that opposed the Dream Act argues that it creates a greater tax burden on already stressed middle-class taxpayers and puts the needs of undocumented immigrants above those of American-citizen students.“Middle-class families across New York continue to struggle with high tuition costs and oppressive taxes,” said Republican Assemblywoman Mary Beth Walsh. “As state representatives, it is our duty to ensure that our state government operates in the best interests of New York’s families” and not undocumented immigrants, she said.Until now, many young undocumented students could not afford to attend universities, despite aspiring to higher-education degrees; the Immigration Policy Center estimates that because of financial constrains, only 5 to 10 percent of the 4,500 undocumented students who graduate from New York high schools each year go on to pursue college degrees.“When I came here I found out how hard it would be to go to college as someone who is undocumented,” said Richard Salinas, an 18-year-old high school student in Queens who came to the United States four years ago. “I wouldn’t be able to get any help, and my mom can’t afford it and my dad can’t afford it.”“This changes everything for me,” Mr. Salinas said.Jesse McKinley and Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Azam Ahmed, Miriam Jordan and Elisabeth MalkinTIJUANA, Mexico — The government of Mexico said Friday that it disagreed with the Trump administration’s decision to roll out a policy that forces asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while they pursue their cases in the United States — but said it would take in some of the asylum seekers anyway.In a statement, the Mexican government said that it “does not agree with this unilateral measure implemented by the government of the United States” and outlined the conditions that it had negotiated since the Department of Homeland Security announced the plan a month ago.Roberto Velasco, a spokesman for Mexico’s Foreign Ministry, said it was “trying to respond to U.S. policy” with respect to the nation’s own immigration policy. “We’re making a sovereign decision to allow some people into Mexico with very clear limits based on what our laws and international commitments allow,” he said.The policy, which the Trump administration said Thursday it would begin to implement, marks an escalation in the administration’s attempt to rein in illegal immigration and a dramatic reversal of the decades-long practice of allowing applicants to request protection from within the United States or at official ports of entry, and to remain in the country while their cases wind through immigration courts.If applied to a majority of asylum applicants, it could potentially flood Mexican border towns like Tijuana with thousands more people seeking protection in the United States.Currently, most migrants who request asylum at the border are released within days with a notice to appear at an immigration court in the interior of the country for their proceedings, a practice that President Trump has derided as “catch and release.” It takes years for cases to advance through the courts. Only 20 percent of all asylum applicants ultimately win the right to remain permanently in the country. That figure is even lower, 10 percent, for Central Americans, who account for most of those requesting asylum at the border.Mexican officials said on Friday that they had held three meetings to discuss the proposal with their counterparts in the United States since it was first announced on Dec. 20, but that ultimately the Department of Homeland Security decided unilaterally to send the first returnees.Still, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico has said he would welcome migrants and promised to respect human rights while affording them economic opportunities here in Mexico. The migrants would be granted yearlong humanitarian visas to live and work in Mexico while they await court hearings on the American side. Those court hearings would have to be scheduled within the year, officials said.The Trump administration said the measure would curtail illegal immigration while remaining faithful to international law.“For far too long, our immigration system has been exploited by smugglers, traffickers and those with no legal right to be in the United States,” said Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, on Thursday.The Department of Homeland Security said that the claims for those returned would be adjudicated within a year, with an initial hearing held within 45 days. But immigration courts are already clogged with 800,0000 pending cases, raising questions about whether this timetable can be achieved, experts said.The policy would apply both to some asylum seekers who try to enter the United States at border crossings and to those apprehended by the authorities after illegally touching United States soil.Historically, undocumented single men have represented the bulk of those arrested and subsequently removed from the county. But since 2013, unaccompanied children and families have arrived in ever-larger numbers.That influx of people was cited by a Department of Homeland Security fact sheet as justification for the policy. Children cannot be detained for more than 72 hours in border holding facilities, prompting the authorities to release their adult parents with them, and the fact sheet referred to a shift in the profile of immigrants reaching the border, “from a demographic who could be quickly removed when they had no legal right to stay to one that cannot be detained and timely removed.”Analysts and lawyers raised other questions about the program.Human rights groups questioned the ethics of sending people fleeing in search of safety back into Mexico, which itself is experiencing horrific violence. Politically, some have asked why Mexico’s new president would essentially agree to turn his country into a waiting room for American asylum seekers.The Mexican government has cautioned that the details of who would be returned and when were still unclear. But in its statement, the government said that it would not accept unaccompanied children or people suffering from health problems. Mexico has yet to agree to accept families, but opened the door for future discussions.Also unclear were the logistics of how the asylum seekers would be taken back into the United States for hearings, or how they might obtain legal counsel while waiting in Mexico.Lawsuits challenging the policy, which may expand to other border areas, are widely expected.Immigrant advocates criticized the administration for what they regard as a denial of due process to asylum seekers fleeing extreme violence or persecution in their home countries and making a harrowing trek to reach the United States.“Once again, the Trump administration is doing everything they can to sabotage the asylum process and harm those who come to us in need of protection,” said Betsy Fisher, policy director for the International Refugee Assistance Project in New York.They cautioned that the policy will imperil the lives of immigrants, including many families with children, stuck in encampments and shelters in Mexico. Already, asylum seekers are waiting months — during which some sleep outdoors — to put in their applications.“Whether in shelters or not, the families are sitting ducks for criminal organizations,” said Lee Gelernt, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union who fought in federal court to reunite migrant parents and children who were separated during a border crackdown last year. Family separations were officially suspended in late June.César Palencia, who is in charge of migrant affairs for the city of Tijuana, said that the city had received no information from the Mexican government about the plan and was not ready to receive more migrants.Tijuana did not have the space to accommodate them or resources to incorporate them, and did not want to “convert itself into a kind of shelter” for these returned migrants, he said.The border city is already overwhelmed with Mexicans deported from the United States, who arrive at the rate of 120 people each day, as well as with migrants from Central America and other countries who have come seeking entry into the United States.Tijuana is still dealing with the aftermath of the last big caravan of Central American migrants. Of some 7,000 people who arrived in November, between 1,500 and 2,000 remained in Tijuana, he said. Another caravan of between 10,000 and 12,000 migrants is heading north from southern Mexico, many likely toward Tijuana.About 1,200 people are on a list awaiting an interview with United States immigration authorities to seek asylum. Their stay could extend to at least one year if they are returned to Tijuana to wait for a court decision after making a claim.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Anthony TommasiniThe composer Julia Wolfe’s new multimedia oratorio concerns the 1911 Triangle shirtwaist factory fire. It was a prescient choice of subject. The fire — which took the lives of 146 garment workers, most of them young immigrant women — led to changes in workplace conditions and stirred debate over contentious issues of gender, labor and immigrants’ rights.But how much progress has been made over the past century? That question hovered over the New York Philharmonic’s premiere of Ms. Wolfe’s ambitious, heartfelt, often compelling “Fire in my mouth” on Thursday, a month into a partial government shutdown driven by bitterness over immigration policy.Ms. Wolfe took risks in writing this work, conducted by the Philharmonic’s music director, Jaap van Zweden, and directed by Anne Kauffman. (It anchors “Threads of Our City,” a series in Mr. van Zweden’s first season as music director exploring immigration.) How does a composer depict such a horrific story without melodrama? How to underscore the powerful old film footage and photos that this production projected over the orchestra — women dressed in ruffled shirts walking into factories; workers sitting at tables with sewing machines; the rubble of the decimated factory building — without the music coming across as mere soundtrack?The big things are right in this tautly structured 60-minute piece in four parts: “Immigration,” “Factory,” “Protest” and “Fire.” In an affecting touch, the chorus is made up of 146 women and girls, members of the excellent chamber choir the Crossing (Donald Nally, director) and the impressive Young People’s Chorus of New York City (Francisco J. Núñez, director).Ms. Wolfe’s choice of choral texts, mostly drawn from oral histories and speeches, shows great sensitivity. In “Immigration” she sets the words of a survivor recalling her trip to America: “five of us girls” taking “a big beautiful boat” that “took about 10 days,” everyone looking “to God knows what kind of future.”There is both heady optimism and a sense of dread in Ms. Wolfe’s music here, whole stretches of which render the words in thick, blocky chords, over an orchestra grounded by droning tones yet run through with fidgety inner details. Often a single word is turned into a battering ram: “10, 10, 10,” or “days, days, days.” Longer choral lines unfold in overlapping phrases, which blend words and choral textures into a haunting muddle.“Factory” begins with percussion evoking the clattering sounds of sewing machines. Most of the workers were Eastern European Jews and southern Italians. So Ms. Wolfe inventively juxtaposes a plaintive Yiddish folk song with a lively Italian tarantella-like piece. The way these songs are embedded in Ms. Wolfe’s agitated, heaving orchestra, they seem like alternative coping mechanisms for the oppressed.There are stretches in which the music of “Fire in my mouth” assumes its place in the multimedia whole a little too well. I liked it most when Ms. Wolfe went for something musically visceral or extreme, as in the climactic episode of “Protest.” The women’s choir sings relentless phrases espousing the determination of these immigrants to “talk like,” “look like” and “sing like” Americans.Then the girls’ choir, entering the hall from the aisles, sang a stark passage from a speech by Clara Lemlich, an activist leading a strike. Here, the choral refrains and orchestra layers built into piercing harmonies, like clusters out of Ives or Varèse, yet driven by Ms. Wolfe’s Minimalism-influenced rhythms.In one of the most gripping moments, the choristers raised actual scissors (specially chosen by Ms. Wolfe) above their heads in an eerie gesture that also added metallic slicing sounds to the musical textures. During the harrowing climax of “Fire” the music turned raw, brassy and blazing, with fractured rhythms, choral plaints that border on screeching, and chanted repetitions: “Burn like, burn like, burn.”Mr. van Zweden led a commanding account of a score that requires close coordination between disparate forces, and which ends with an elegiac final chorus in which the names of all 146 victims are tenderly sung to create a fabric of music and memory.Another elegy, an instrumental movement from Steven Stucky’s oratorio “August 4, 1964,” about Lyndon B. Johnson, opened the program. Then the Philharmonic’s principal clarinetist, Anthony McGill, was a superb soloist in Copland’s Clarinet Concerto, a piece that begins with a winding, wistful melody that segues into a feisty second movement: in this context, another, brighter side of urban life.New York PhilharmonicThis program continues through Saturday at David Geffen Hall, Lincoln Center; 212-875-5656, nyphil.org.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matt Stevens, Emily S. Rueb and Elisha BrownOn the night of Jan. 10, someone walked into a home tucked near the forests that blanket Nevada’s northwest border and fatally shot 56-year-old Connie Koontz, the authorities said. Three days later, again under the cover of darkness, someone walked into another Douglas County home about a mile up the road and shot and killed Sophia Renken, 74.Then, three days after that, Washoe County sheriff’s deputies searched a home about 40 miles farther north on La Guardia Lane. There, they found 81-year-old Gerald David and his wife, Sharon David, 80, both with gunshot wounds; they, too, were dead.For nine days, law enforcement officials from across the region banded together to both reassure and ready residents who had been shaken by what prosecutors would call “brutal murders.” Lock your doors and windows, the authorities said; turn on outdoor lights; keep your cellphones handy.By Sunday — the 10th day of regionwide panic — they were able to deliver some calming news: A suspect was in custody; they believed the man, who they have varyingly identified as Wilbur or Wilber Martinez-Guzman, was responsible for all four homicides.Mr. Martinez-Guzman, who is either 19 or 20 years old, had been arrested at a home on Saturday afternoon on felony burglary and immigration charges, Sheriff Ken Furlong of Carson City said, though prosecutors added that they intended to charge him with the murders. Law enforcement officials did not discuss the motive in the killings.Immigration officials, Sheriff Furlong said, had notified law enforcement that Mr. Martinez-Guzman had been in the Carson City area for about a year, but “was likely in the United States illegally and was detainable.” Jail records show that he is under a hold from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which Sheriff Furlong said prevented him from being released on bail.The agency said Wednesday that Mr. Martinez-Guzman “is a citizen of Guatemala who ICE believes is unlawfully present in the United States.” There were no prior criminal or immigration encounters noted in his history, officials said, while also confirming that they had placed a so-called detainer on him.“Four people in Nevada viciously robbed and killed by an illegal immigrant who should not have been in our Country,” President Trump said in a tweet on Monday. “We need a powerful Wall!”The disclosure that Mr. Martinez-Guzman may be in the United States illegally has thrust the case into a set of high-profile murders that Mr. Trump has leveraged to bolster his arguments about immigration and the need for a wall along the country’s southwest border. The dispute over funding for such a wall remains at the center of a government shutdown.The president has previously called attention to the murder of Mollie Tibbetts, a 20-year-old college student, who the police have said was killed by an undocumented immigrant from Mexico. (Her father has called on people to not exploit her death to promote a political agenda.) Mr. Trump also said it was “time to get tough on Border Security” after the authorities arrested a man in California in December who they said fatally shot a police officer and had entered the United States illegally.In the meantime, friends and family of the four Nevada victims — some of whom flanked the police at the Sunday news conference — were left to grieve.Eddie England, 70, who met Ms. Renken through the Carson Valley chapter of the Antique Automobile Club of America, said in an interview on Tuesday that four lives could have been saved if Mr. Martinez-Guzman had been expelled from the country.He described Ms. Renken as an independent and tough woman who drove a 1930s Ford Model A. Still, she moved to Gardnerville in Douglas County a few years ago to be closer to people — a situation she felt would be safer, Mr. England said.“And this,” he said, “is what happened to her.”“It’s hard to take.”Alan Squailia, a friend of Mr. David, described Gerald and his wife as “salt-of-the-earth people,” who were active community servants and animal lovers.“If you needed a friend, and needed someone to help you, it was this couple,” Mr. Squailia, 75, said.Looking at a photograph of Mr. Martinez-Guzman, Mr. Squailia said he could imagine that Mr. David would have invited the young man into his home if he had been looking for help.“The whole city of Reno is devastated over this,” he said. “We still can’t wrap our minds around it.”Doris Burke contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — The Trump administration said Thursday that it would start blocking a small number of asylum seekers from entering the United States from Mexico, using the San Ysidro border crossing near San Diego as the first location to turn back immigrants applying for refugee status.The policy to block asylum seekers was first announced last month by Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. It will gradually be expanded over the next two weeks at border crossings with heavy foot traffic in Texas, New Mexico and Arizona, according to a senior United States official briefed on the move, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The move is intended to dissuade immigrants, mostly from Central America, from making the long and dangerous journey through Mexico to the southwestern United States border. The policy is likely to intensify pressure on the Mexican authorities, who are already struggling to deal with thousands of Central American immigrants who have applied for humanitarian visas in Tapachula, near the border with Guatemala.It will apply both to some asylum seekers who try to enter the United States at border crossings and to people who are stopped while illegally trying to enter. Asylum seekers generally have been allowed to wait in the United States, often for years, for their cases to be processed.The number of pending immigration cases has grown by nearly 50 percent under President Trump, what many lawyers and advocates say is a crisis.“For far too long, our immigration system has been exploited by smugglers, traffickers and those with no legal right to be in the United States,” said Ms. Nielsen, who described the new protocol as a “methodical common-sense approach” in a statement late Thursday.While she cited the danger posed by adults and criminals, a fact sheet explaining the justification for the new policy, described as “migrant protection protocols,” cited an unmanageable influx of children and families from Central America as the main reason for the change.The protocol was necessary to counter “misguided court decisions and outdated laws that have made it easier for illegal aliens to enter and remain in the U.S.,” Ms. Nielsen said. Under the provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, the new policy can be enforced immediately without congressional approval, she added.Despite President Trump’s efforts to limit refugees, the number of migrants who asked for asylum last year out of fear of returning to their home countries jumped nearly 70 percent from 2017, according to Department of Homeland Security data. Nearly 60 percent of all foreigners asking for asylum were people in families.The announcement was made on Thursday amid tense negotiations between American and Mexican officials over how the policy would be carried out. It was primarily intended to relieve pressure on American immigration officials, but the senior official said it was also intended to highlight what the White House has called a “humanitarian crisis.”Mr. Trump shut down the government over a month ago over demands that House Democrats allocate $5.7 billion for the construction of a wall along the southwestern border. His plan failed in the Republican-controlled Senate on Thursday, leaving no clear path for an end to the longest funding lapse in American history.Under the new policy, asylum seekers who are turned back to Mexico will receive a notice informing them of their right to be heard in United States immigration court after 45 days, officials said.Immigrants rights groups are expected to challenge the move in court, and they are likely to argue that forcing asylum seekers to wait in Mexican border cities puts them at greater risk in a region known for its high murder rates.The Mexican authorities had long expected the move, but were taken aback when they were told early on Thursday that the plan would take effect on Friday.That will force the Mexican government to create a system for processing, housing and protecting the asylum seekers who would now congregate on their side of the border.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Peter BakerWASHINGTON — President Trump delivered a message of bipartisan unity on Tuesday night in his first address to Congress in the new era of divided government, but signaled that he would continue to wage war for the hard-line immigration policies that have polarized the capital and the nation.In a nationally televised speech that toggled between conciliation and confrontation, Mr. Trump presented himself as a leader who could work across party lines even as he pressed lawmakers to build a wall along the nation’s southwestern border that leaders of the newly empowered congressional Democrats have adamantly rejected.“We must reject the politics of revenge, resistance and retribution, and embrace the boundless potential of cooperation, compromise and the common good,” the president said. “Together, we can break decades of political stalemate. We can bridge old divisions, heal old wounds, build new coalitions, forge new solutions and unlock the extraordinary promise of America’s future.”Any hopes for a newfound spirit of cooperation, however, seemed elusive as the president and Democrats spent the hours before, during and after the address exchanging partisan political fire, making clear that ritualistic calls for across-the-aisle collaboration were unlikely to transform an environment that has turned increasingly toxic.Republicans jumped to their feet at the president’s calls to curb immigration, limit late-term abortions and ensure that the United States does not turn to socialism, even chanting “U-S-A, U-S-A” a couple of times as if at a Trump campaign rally. “That sounds so good,” he exulted.Speaker Nancy Pelosi, sitting behind Mr. Trump for the first time, and other Democrats largely remained in their seats without applauding and expressed only tepid enthusiasm even for his mention of goals intended to appeal to them, like infrastructure and paid parental leave. Ms. Pelosi maintained a polite, even amused smile on her face for much of the speech.But the evening was filled with political theater as the president introduced World War II veterans, Holocaust survivors, the Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin, a 10-year-old cancer survivor, a police officer shot seven times at last fall’s synagogue massacre in Pittsburgh and the teary-eyed relatives of a couple killed by an illegal immigrant, all sitting with the first lady, Melania Trump.The change in the power structure in a Capitol long dominated by men was on display as Ms. Pelosi and scores of House Democratic women wore white, the color of the suffrage movement, reflecting the fact that 131 women were sworn into the new Congress, the most in American history.When Mr. Trump noted this breakthrough, the women leapt to their feet, cheering, dancing and high-fiving each other. “That’s really great,” he said. “Congratulations.”He made no direct mention of the issues that may yet come to dominate the year, such as the Russia investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, or the parallel inquiries that House Democrats intend to conduct into his campaign’s ties with Russia and efforts to impede investigations.Instead, he alluded to them only in passing, but pointedly. “An economic miracle is taking place in the United States,” he said, “and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations.”But Mr. Trump indicated no retreat from his almost singular pursuit of a border wall, directly taking on Ms. Pelosi, who has called it “immoral.” He devoted 15 minutes of the hour-and-22-minute speech to immigration with no concession to Democratic priorities like a path to citizenship for immigrants brought into the country illegally as children.“This is a moral issue,” Mr. Trump said as Ms. Pelosi sat unmoved behind him. “No issue better illustrates the divide between America’s working class and America’s political class than illegal immigration,” he added. “Wealthy politicians and donors push for open borders while living their lives behind walls and gates and guards.”In the official Democratic response, Stacey Abrams, who lost a close race for governor of Georgia in November, scorned the idea of unity from a president who has practiced the politics of division. “We know bipartisanship could craft a 21st-century immigration plan,” she said, “but this administration chooses to cage children and tear families apart.”Ms. Abrams, who is African-American, challenged Mr. Trump’s history of racial provocation, saying, “We must hold everyone from the highest offices to our families accountable for racist words and deeds and call racism what it is — wrong.”The president’s speech, built on a theme of “choosing greatness,” came at a pivotal moment halfway through the president’s term as he seeks to regain momentum after the midterm election defeat that handed control of the House to Democrats and after his failed effort to use a partial government shutdown to extract money for the wall.Stung by his retreat on the government shutdown, Mr. Trump has hardly been in the mood for collaboration with the other party. As he and his team drafted his address in recent days, he has groused about the text, complaining that it was too gentle on Democrats, according to people briefed on the matter.New York Times reporters analyzed the 45th president’s second State of the Union Speech on Tuesday.The president insisted on sharpening some of the lines in the speech and rebuffed aides, who urged him to congratulate Ms. Pelosi on her ascension to the speakership.During an off-the-record lunch for television anchors on Tuesday before the speech, Mr. Trump offered scathing assessments of a number of leading Democrats, including some lining up to run against him next year.He dismissed former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as “dumb,” called Senator Chuck Schumer of New York a “nasty son of a bitch” and mocked Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia, who he said “choked like a dog” at a news conference where Mr. Northam tried to explain a racist yearbook photograph, according to multiple people in the room.Democrats did not wait for the address to pan it. “It seems every year the president wakes up and discovers the desire for unity on the morning of the State of the Union, then the president spends the other 364 days of the year dividing us, and sowing a state of disunion,” Mr. Schumer said on the Senate floor. He added, “The blatant hypocrisy of this president calling for unity is that he is one of the chief reasons Americans feel so divided now.”Mr. Trump fired back at Mr. Schumer via Twitter. “I see Schumer is already criticizing my State of the Union speech, even though he hasn’t seen it yet,” the president wrote. “He’s just upset that he didn’t win the Senate, after spending a fortune, like he thought he would. Too bad we weren’t given more credit for the Senate win by the media!”Mr. Trump arrived at this point in his presidency with the approval of just 37 percent of the public, according to Gallup. In the past four decades, the only times a president headed into a State of the Union address with as little or less support were in 1983 when Ronald Reagan was struggling with a painful recession and in 2007 and 2008 when George W. Bush was trying to turn around the Iraq war.Mr. Trump is the only president in the history of Gallup polling to have never drawn the support of a majority of the public at any point in his first two years in office. But while he is the fourth president in a row to lose at least one house of Congress during a midterm election, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama both bounced back to win re-election, and Mr. Trump has privately expressed confidence that he will, too.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Alexandra Leigh Young and Annie Brown, and edited by Lisa TobinLike President Trump, the last three presidents all lost at least one house of Congress at a midterm election. Their subsequent speeches offered a blueprint for what came next.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: In his first State of the Union address since losing control of Congress, the president repeatedly spoke of bipartisan unity. But a history of these speeches suggests that it’s everything else he said that will best predict how he actually governs. It’s Wednesday, February 6. Mark?mark landlerYeah, Michael?michael barbaroHey.mark landlerHow are you?michael barbaroGood. Happy State of the Union.mark landlerSame to you.michael barbaroI really don’t like this language people use, “S.O.T.U.”mark landlerYeah, it’s really awful.michael barbaroAwful. So let’s not do that.mark landlerIt’s kind of a dismal evening anyway, and calling it “S.O.T.U.” just sort of deepens the gloom that hangs over the whole thing.michael barbaroAnd yeah, why is it so gloomy?mark landlerI don’t know. I mean, you wouldn’t believe it— there were, like, 50 people in the meeting today for S.O.T.U. planning.michael barbaroWhat did we say about that word?mark landlerO.K.michael barbaroO.K., everybody good? Mark, what’s the significance of this particular State of the Union in your mind?mark landlerFor President Trump, this is the first State of the Union address he’s delivered since his party was swept out of power in the midterm election last November. And so it’s the first time he’s facing a divided Congress. And the president is really forced to conduct a very public reset of his presidency to take account of a divided Washington. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)Mr. President, Mr. Speaker. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerIt’s not a unique situation, by any stretch. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Madame Speaker, Vice President Cheney, members of Congress, distinguished guests and fellow citizens.archived recording (president barack obama)Members of Congress, distinguished guests and fellow Americans. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAll three of Mr. Trump’s immediate predecessors faced the same situation. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)Again, we are here in the sanctuary of democracy. ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): The rite of custom brings us together at a defining hour. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerWith State of the Union addresses they gave after their party suffered defeats in midterm elections. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): When decisions are hard and courage is needed.archived recording (president barack obama)I believe we can, and I believe we must. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerEach of them approached the situation in different ways. And in each case, it provided a sort of a telling glimpse, a blueprint for how they were going to behave over the coming two years of their presidencies. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): And this is the business before us tonight.archived recording (president barack obama)That’s what the people who sent us here expect of us.archived recording (president bill clinton)Well, my fellow Americans, that’s my agenda for America’s future. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroSo take us through the examples of these last three presidents who have given these speeches after they lost a midterm election. How have they approached the speech?mark landlerWell, let’s start with Bill Clinton. Bill Clinton gave his State of the Union address in January 1995 — [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingDemocrats lost the House, they lost the Senate. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerThree months after his party suffered a devastating defeat in the midterm elections. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingThe Democratic chairman David Wilhelm said, simply, we got our butts kicked. Not one incumbent Republican lost. The anti-Clinton tide was fueled largely by frustration. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerTime Magazine put him on the cover under the headline “The Incredible Shrinking President.” Journalists even asked him whether he was still relevant anymore. And so this relatively young, untested president was dealt a very serious blow. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingMr. Speaker, the president of the United States. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd he really came into his State of the Union address acknowledging that fact. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)If we agree on nothing else tonight, we must agree that the American people certainly voted for change in 1992 and in 1994. As I look out at you, I know how some of you must have felt in 1992. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerBill Clinton took a very contrite tone. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)In this effort, I am trying to say that I have made my mistakes. And I have learned, again, the importance of humility in all human endeavor. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerSo this was a president who admitted that he had screwed up and he pledged to learn from this experience. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)I think we all agree that we have to change the way the government works. Let’s make it smaller, less costly and smarter— leaner and not meaner. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd even more than that, he pledged to take seriously the message that this incoming Republican majority brought with it. He acknowledged that, to some extent, the era of big government was over. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)And we’re working on getting rid of unnecessary regulations and making them more sensible. The programs and regulations that have outlived their usefulness should go. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerBill Kristol, a conservative commentator, commented after this speech was given that it was the most conservative State of the Union address any Democratic president had ever delivered. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)This is a very, very great country. And our best days are still to come. Thank you, and God bless you all. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroSo how much did Clinton’s message at this State of the Union— this conciliatory tone, these promises of bipartisanship and an acknowledgment of this conservative agenda— how much did it predict how he was going to govern for the next two years?mark landlerSo, in fact, Bill Clinton did adjust. He did govern more as a centrist. He did pursue policies where he tried to find some common ground. And in the end, by moving toward his opponents, he wound up being very successful. And two years later, he was re-elected by a comfortable margin over his Republican opponent, Bob Dole. And Newt Gingrich, his antagonist— the man who sat behind him that night at the speech— wound up being the wounded figure, because he had gone to war with President Clinton over a government shutdown, and he ended up shouldering the blame, not Clinton. In other words, the State of the Union actually showed that this was a president who was learning on the job, who was willing to adjust course, and came out of it victorious. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingWashington turned upside down. The Democrats in, Rumsfeld out— tonight on “Washington Week.” ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): If you look at race by race, it was close. The cumulative effect, however, was not too close. It was a thumping. Even the president could not find a silver lining this time. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerTwelve years later, Bill Clinton’s successor, George W. Bush, found himself in a very similar situation. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingRepublicans licked their wounds. Don Rumsfeld lost his job. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerThe Iraq War has gone very badly. He’s been widely condemned for his handling of Hurricane Katrina. And in the midterm elections of 2006, the voters deliver a brutal message. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingI think you could say the driving force was that old refrain, “I’m mad as hell, and I’m not going to take it anymore.” And that’s what we heard. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerThey send Congress back into the control of the Democrats. And President Bush turns up for his State of the Union address. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (speaker nancy pelosi)The president of the United States. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerFacing House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): And tonight, I have the high privilege and distinct honor of my own as the first president to begin the State of the Union message with these words: Madame Speaker. [END PLAYBACK] He’s extremely gracious to her. He congratulates her. He refers to her father, who was a Democratic lawmaker from Baltimore, and the pride he would have felt if he had seen his daughter presiding in the chamber that night. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): But nothing could compare with the sight of his only daughter, Nancy. [END PLAYBACK] And then he delivers a speech. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Some in this chamber are new to the House and the Senate, and I congratulate the Democrat majority. [END PLAYBACK] Where he takes account of the bitterness that Iraq has caused and the opposition that it has stirred up. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): With the distance of time, we find ourselves debating the causes of conflict and the course we have followed. [END PLAYBACK] Not just among Democrats, but among members of his own party. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): I’ve spoken with many of you in person. I respect you and the arguments you’ve made. We went into this largely united in our assumptions and in our convictions. And whatever you voted for, you did not vote for failure. [END PLAYBACK] And he, in effect, pleads for more time. He says that in this difficult situation, he and his military advisers have decided on a troop surge. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): So we’re deploying reinforcements of more than 20,000 additional soldiers and Marines to Iraq. [END PLAYBACK] And he basically asks for time to get this war right. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Our country is pursuing a new strategy in Iraq, and I ask you to give it a chance to work. And I ask you to support our troops in the field and those on their way. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroSo President Bush uses this speech to acknowledge the unhappiness in the country. But unlike Clinton after the midterms, he doesn’t change his approach. In fact, he leans into it and doubles down on it when it comes to the war in Iraq. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Our cause in the world is right. And tonight, that cause goes on. God bless. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd he also sticks to it afterward. So this speech is a very accurate blueprint for what the rest of the Bush presidency looks like. He does send the troops, they wind up having more success than many of the critics expected, and this becomes the way the United States winds down the war in Iraq. He really lays out the end game in Iraq in this State of the Union address. It actually proves to be a very, very accurate predictor of how things play out. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingRight now, we’re looking at a live picture of the U.S. Capitol, where the Republicans will seize control of the House of Representatives. Picking up more than 60 seats now. Ohio’s John Boehner now stands to become the next speaker, replacing Nancy Pelosi. He already got a call. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd then came President Obama, who spoke before Congress in January 2011, three months after his party lost control of Congress. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingThe American people have sent an unmistakable message to him tonight, and that message is— change course. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd left this young president very much on his back foot. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president barack obama)Tonight, I want to begin by congratulating the men and women of the 112th Congress as well as your new speaker, John Boehner. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroAnd how did Obama’s State of the Union confront that?mark landlerWell, Obama responds to this setback, to this defeat, not by being contrite or acknowledging error. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president barack obama)For the challenges we face are bigger than party, bigger than politics. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerBut by, in effect, pushing past it. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president barack obama)At stake right now is not who wins the next election— after all, we just had an election. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerBy brushing it aside, by saying there are bigger things that we need to focus on than petty politics. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president barack obama)At stake is whether new jobs and industries take root in this country or somewhere else. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroEssentially, by ignoring it.mark landlerIndeed. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president barack obama)The future is ours to win. But to get there, we can’t just stand still. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerSo it was a very soaring message that was in keeping with the way President Obama ran for office, but one that didn’t necessarily acknowledge the defeat that his party had just suffered.michael barbaroSo does the way that Obama responds to this division in this speech— by kind of ignoring it, by not fully acknowledging the new political terrain he has to confront— does this forecast how he ends up working with Congress for the next two years?mark landlerI think it does quite accurately. Because if you look at what happens in the years after this, President Obama never really does form a good working relationship. He never really does roll up his sleeves and attempt to find much common ground with Republicans in Congress. And so, to some extent, these grand ideas remain just that— grand ideas, because he wasn’t able to work with Republicans to translate them into more of a tangible reality.michael barbaroSo in that sense, the speech was a very honest and accurate predictor.mark landlerExactly. Indeed.michael barbaroO.K. So it is 7:52, Mark— a little over an hour before President Trump gives his State of the Union. Given the history you’ve just described, what do you expect his message to be now that he has divided government?mark landlerWe don’t know exactly what he’s going to say, but we do know that whatever their differences, all three of his predecessors issued a call for unity. Unity is the one theme that we can almost certainly expect to hear in virtually any State of the Union address. But what’s really interesting is less that than what’s between the lines, what’s the subtext or the nuance in the State of the Union address. That’s where you can really see what the president plans to do, how he plans to govern, what blueprint or what predicate he’s putting in place. So what’s going to be interesting in President Trump’s address is not a call for unity. It’s almost certainly going to be there. It’s the other things that are in the speech that are going to really tell you what we can expect.michael barbaroSo, Mark, thank you for now. We will talk to you after Trump’s State of the Union in, I guess, an hour or two.mark landlerLook forward to it.michael barbaro So, Mark, what did President Trump do tonight?mark landlerWell, when President Trump took the rostrum in the House chamber tonight — [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Thank you very much. Madame Speaker. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerHe uttered the phrase “Madame Speaker” in deference to Nancy Pelosi, but he avoided giving her any further congratulations on taking up her position. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)We meet tonight at a moment of unlimited potential. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerHe did, nevertheless, start off with— [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)As we begin a new Congress, I stand here ready to work with you to achieve historic breakthroughs for all Americans. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerA pretty standard call for bipartisanship and for unity. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Hoping that we will govern not as two parties, but as one nation. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerHe said at one point— [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Victory is not winning for our party— [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerVictory is not winning for our party, victory is winning for our country. From there, he sort of segued into the economic achievements of his administration. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)In just over two years since the election, we have launched an unprecedented economic boom. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerBut at that point, he took a distinct turn in tone. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)An economic miracle is taking place in the United States, and the only thing that can stop it— [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerHe basically said at this point— [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerThere can’t be any cooperation on legislation if there’s going to be what he called ridiculous partisan investigations of his presidency. This was a reference not only to potential future investigations by Congress, but also the Mueller investigation. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation. It just doesn’t work that way. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd he actually put a fairly menacing tone on it. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Now is the time for bipartisan action. Believe it or not, we have already proven that that’s possible. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerFrom there, he turns to a more bipartisan issue— criminal justice reform. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Criminal justice reform— they said it couldn’t be done. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerBut almost immediately— [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Now Republicans and Democrats must join forces again to confront an urgent national crisis. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerHe then segues into immigration, talks about the virtues and importance of building a wall. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Wealthy politicians and donors push for open borders. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd accuses the political elite of being divided from ordinary, working-class Americans. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)While living their lives behind walls and gates and guards. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerSo the language here is extremely uncompromising. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Simply put— walls work, and walls save lives. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd this toggling continues throughout the speech. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Two weeks ago, the United States officially recognized the legitimate government of Venezuela. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAt one point, he’s talking about the global coalition to force out a tyrant, an autocrat in Venezuela. And yet in his next breath— [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Here in the United States, we are alarmed by the new calls to adopt socialism in our country. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerHe’s likening this new class of Democrats in Congress to socialists. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)America was founded on liberty and independence. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd saying, America will never be a socialist country. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)We are born free, and we will stay free. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroBut it sounds like you think that the conciliatory language is just the obligatory language of the State of the Union, and it’s the harder-edged stuff that we should be listening to and thinking about in relation to past State of the Unions that you outlined before.mark landlerI do. I think that if you look at the things the president talks about that are more conciliatory, they tend to be on the level of symbolism. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)In recent years, we have made remarkable progress in the fight against H.I.V. and AIDS. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerA campaign to fight AIDS with no dollar sign attached to it. A campaign to fight cancer in children with no specifics attached to it. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)My budget will ask Congress for $500 million over the next 10 years to fund this critical, life-saving research. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerWhile the areas where he’s hard-edged are really the ones that matter to the future direction of governance and of his relationship with Congress. Whether he resolves this issue over funding the wall and, more broadly, whether he and the Democrats ever come to terms on immigration is really a core issue of how the rest of the Trump presidency will play out. That, much more than these conciliatory stories, these nice images, are really what matter in this speech. And I think the speechwriters were very careful to lard this speech with this kind of uplifting material. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)In 2019, we also celebrate 50 years since brave young pilots flew a quarter of a million miles through space to plant the American flag on the face of the moon. [END PLAYBACK] To make it more attractive to a broad audience while also speaking to the president’s political base. But make no mistake— this speech was targeted to the political base. It was meant to mollify that base. And I think it’s important that we not lose sight of that reality.michael barbaroSo where does this speech fit into the history of State of the Unions that have come after the dawn of divided government?mark landlerWell, I think what’s most significant is that there is really no acknowledgment in this speech of the changed circumstances. There’s no acknowledgment here that President Trump faces a new political reality, that he has to do business with the Democrats if he wants to get any significant legislation passed. This is the speech given by a president who is behaving very much like he did the week he was inaugurated, when he had a unified Congress under his control.michael barbaroDoes that make this, then, an Obama-like State of the Union?mark landlerI think the difference with President Obama is that, while he did not suggest that the defeat in the midterms was really going to change how he approached governing, he did at least acknowledge the fact that he had suffered an electoral setback in the midterms. In Mr. Trump’s case, he didn’t acknowledge the defeat he suffered in the midterm elections except in a highly indirect way. And it was actually one of the most remarkable moments of the evening. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)No one has benefited more from our thriving economy than women. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerPresident Trump was talking about the increasing numbers of women in the workplace, including in Congress. And spontaneously, this group of young, female Democratic lawmakers rose in unison and began chanting “U.S.A” and cheering and clapping. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Very good. And congratulations, that’s great. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd the president broke into a smile and appeared, in a funny way, to be taking credit for their presence in the House— which, of course, is deeply ironic, because the reason they’re in the House is because they were elected largely as a repudiation of him. So I think if you’re looking for any signs of a newly pragmatic president or a president who will take heed of some of the concerns of the opposing party, I don’t think we saw any of that in the speech tonight. And I would not expect to see any of that in his governing style over the next couple of years.michael barbaroWell, Mark, it is almost 1:00 a.m. We are really grateful to you, thank you so much.mark landlerThank you, Michael. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Thank you. God bless you. And God bless America. Thank you very much. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroHere’s what else you need to know today. On Tuesday, in the latest sign of progress toward a peace deal, leaders of the Taliban met with former high-ranking leaders of the Afghan government, including its former president in Moscow. The session excluded the leaders of Afghanistan’s current government, who the Taliban views as a US puppet but was still the most significant contact between the Taliban and Afghan leaders since the US drove the Taliban from power in 2001. In a surprising development during the negotiations, the Taliban said it now respected women’s rights, including the right to education and work, despite having banned women from public life when the group was in power. And. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingFor example, you wrote in the 1990s that climate change is nothing more than a major environmental boogey man and the greenhouse effort is a controversial theory pushed by environmental groups. You still stand by those assertions? [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroDuring a heated confirmation hearing on Tuesday, senators from both parties questioned the past writings of Naomi Rowe, president Trump’s nominee to replace Brett Kavanaugh on the powerful federal appeals court in Washington. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingSenator Leahy, those are statements from college, as you said, a few decades old when I think some of these issues were more hotly debated. And, no, I mean, I think the science has become much more conclusive over time. Conclusive in what way? Well, I think they’re— my understanding is that there’s an overwhelming scientific consensus that there is climate change. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroSenators repeatedly asked Rowe to explain a series of provocative columns she wrote as a college student expressing skepticism about global warming and calling equality between women and men a dangerous concept. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingA dangerous feminist ideal is that women are created equal? Senator, I very much regret that statement and I’ve always believed strongly in the equality of women and men and for equal rights and opportunities for women. I’m honestly not sure why I wrote that in college. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroThat’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.After presidents suffer setbacks in midterms, they often reach out to the victorious opposition with words of conciliation, however artificial or short-lived they may be. In Mr. Trump’s case, he opened this period of partisan power sharing with a relentless confrontation over his proposed border wall, resulting in a record-breaking 35-day partial government shutdown.That impasse nearly cost Mr. Trump his opportunity to deliver his State of the Union address, as Ms. Pelosi refused to let him come to the House chamber as long as federal agencies were closed and workers unpaid. Mr. Trump backed down and accepted a measure reopening the government for three weeks, but negotiations in the interim have made no more progress toward winning money for his wall — and the government could close again on Feb. 15.Given that, Mr. Trump’s calls for unity were almost surely destined to fall on deaf ears. Even Republicans have publicly rebuked him lately for his plans to withdraw troops from Syria and Afghanistan, and party leaders have pressed him not to declare a national emergency bypassing Congress to build the wall.Among those invited by the president to join the first lady during the speech was Joshua Trump, a sixth-grade student from Wilmington, Del., who “has been bullied in school due to his last name,” according to the White House.Democrats were making points with their guests, as well. Among those they invited were air traffic controllers who went unpaid during the government shutdown, illegal immigrants who worked at Mr. Trump’s properties and transgender soldiers who will be banned under the president’s new policy.In addition to Ms. Abrams, other Democrats sought to get in on the action. Senator Kamala Harris of California, who is running for president, delivered her own response shortly before the speech, while Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who may also run, delivered his afterward.In his address, Mr. Trump assailed Democrats like Mr. Northam for comments in support of easing restrictions on late-term abortions and called for federal legislation cracking down on such procedures, a nod to Mr. Trump’s conservative base. He made no mention of the racist medical school yearbook picture that has threatened Mr. Northam’s political career, after aides cautioned him about raising that issue.Mr. Trump also sought to frame the opposition Democrats as too extreme, suggesting that the country was in danger of a socialist takeover. “Here in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country,” he said, as Republican lawmakers booed. “We are born free and we will stay free. Tonight we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country.”The president highlighted what he sees as the accomplishments of his first two years in office, including a growing economy, rising energy production, increased military spending, deregulation and tax cuts. He pressed Congress to approve his new trade pact with Canada and Mexico updating the North American Free Trade Agreement.Mr. Trump did not outline the traditional laundry list of new initiatives, the way other presidents have, but he did plan to make a national commitment to end transmission of the virus that causes AIDS, with a goal of stopping its spread in the United States by 2030. He repeated past calls for bipartisan measures to rebuild “America’s crumbling infrastructure,” curb the cost of prescription drugs and approve paid parental leave.The president also talked about his goal of bringing an end to the “endless wars” in places like Syria and Afghanistan, the threat he sees from Iran and his bid to force President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela to step down. He announced that he would meet for the second time with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, in Vietnam on Feb. 27-28 to seek his nuclear disarmament.Mr. Trump ended his address with an uncharacteristic effort at poetry, an ode to America and its common purpose. “I am asking you to choose greatness,” he said. “No matter the trials we face, no matter the challenges to come, we must go forward together.”Michael Grynbaum contributed reporting from New York, and Maggie Haberman and Emily Baumgaertner from Washington.Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHis populist attacks on the priorities of the “ruling class” have set off a maelstrom.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.Competing notions of American national identity are coming to dominate American politics.On Jan. 2, a searing Tucker Carlson monologue on Fox News resonated across every corner of the conservative movement.“The goal for America is both simpler and more elusive than mere prosperity,” Carlson told his audience. “Dignity. Purpose. Self-control. Independence. Above all, deep relationships with other people.”President Trump is one of the most dedicated Fox viewers in the country. Carlson went on:Our leaders don’t care. We are ruled by mercenaries who feel no long-term obligation to the people they rule. They’re day traders. Substitute teachers. They’re just passing through. They have no skin in this game, and it shows. They can’t solve our problems. They don’t even bother to understand our problems.Carlson, who is in a ratings race with both his Fox colleague Sean Hannity and MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow, argued that many conservatives have scant understanding of the adversity faced by members of the working and lower middle class in America:The idea that families are being crushed by market forces seems never to occur to them. They refuse to consider it. Questioning markets feels like apostasy. Both sides miss the obvious point: Culture and economics are inseparably intertwined. Certain economic systems allow families to thrive. Thriving families make market economies possible.Carlson pointed specifically to problems faced by rural white America, the crucial base of Republican voters: “Stunning out of wedlock birthrates. High male unemployment. A terrifying drug epidemic.” How, Carlson asked, “did this happen?” You’d think our ruling class would be interested in knowing the answer. But mostly they’re not. They don’t have to be interested. It’s easier to import foreign labor to take the place of native-born Americans who are slipping behind.Despite this failing of conservatism, Carlson contended that only the Republican Party can lead the country back to salvation:There’s no option at this point. But first, Republican leaders will have to acknowledge that market capitalism is not a religion. Market capitalism is a tool, like a staple gun or a toaster. You’d have to be a fool to worship it. Our system was created by human beings for the benefit of human beings. We do not exist to serve markets. Just the opposite. Any economic system that weakens and destroys families is not worth having. A system like that is the enemy of a healthy society.The Carlson monologue became an extended subject of debate, which my Times colleague Ross Douthat also examined. For example, in “The Right Should Reject Tucker Carlson’s Victimhood Populism,” David French, a senior writer at National Review, argued that “it is still true that your choices are far more important to your success than any government program or the actions of any nefarious banker or any malicious feminist.”“If an obscure senator gave this speech, he’d be famous overnight,” Kyle Smith, a critic at large for National Review, wrote the next day. “Carlson scores some major points, and like most great speeches this one can’t easily be dismissed as either left or right-wing.”Carlson touched nerves well outside conservative circles. I asked Dean Baker, co-founder of the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research, for his response to the monologue. He replied: “It’s a bit scary to me how much of this I agree with.” Baker quibbled with some minor points, butignoring these off the mark comments, he is absolutely right that the leadership of both parties has largely embraced an agenda that serves the rich with little concern for average workers.In addition to Carlson, one of the most engaged critics of the Republican establishment is Oren Cass, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute and the author of “The Once and Future Worker.”In his book, Cass faults both parties, but his condemnation of the Democratic Party is far harsher than his critique of the Republican Party:Republicans have generally trusted that free markets will benefit all participants, prized the higher output associated with an ‘efficient’ outcome, and expressed skepticism that political actors could identify and pursue better outcomes, even if any existed. Their labor-market policy could best be described as one of benign neglect.Democrats, in contrast,can sound committed to a more worker-centric model of growth, but rather than trusting the market too much, they trample it. The party’s actual agenda centers on the interests advanced by its coalition of labor unions, environmentalists, and identity groups. Its policies rely on an expectation that government mandates and programs will deliver what the market does not. This agenda inserts countless regulatory wedges that aim to improve the conditions of employment but in the process raise its cost, driving apart the players that the market is attempting to connect.In a Salon review of “The Once and Future Worker,” Samuel Hammond, director of welfare policy at the libertarian Niskanen Center — a Washington a think tank I described last week — writes:Indeed, far from the usual conservative manifesto, ‘The Once and Future Worker,’ is a scathing critique of globalization, open immigration, and the commoditization of labor — forces which Cass believes have ransacked working class fortunes across three decades of neoliberal hegemony.Cass is eager to place himself at the disposal of both parties. He was one of 13 ideologically ambidextrous authors of a joint Brookings-American Enterprise Institute report, “Work, Skills, Community: Restoring Opportunity for the Working Class.” The November 2018 study pointed to areas of concord between segments of the right and the left.The 13 authors found common ground on a set of proposals that call for both more spending and tougher work requirements. These proposals include expanding the earned-income tax credit to cover childless workers, including experimenting with a new wage subsidy; getting recipients of government subsidies back to work, including beneficiaries of means-tested government programs; and enlarging eligibility for the child and dependent care tax credit.While it is possible, in theory, that Carlson and Cass could support Democratic candidates, they sharply disagree with the Democratic Party on the highly salient issue of immigration.In his book, Cass writes:The United States should limit increases in its supply of unskilled immigrant labor. This new approach would require first and foremost that criteria for allowing entrance into the country emphasize education level — attainment of a college degree, in particular.In the case of undocumented immigrants, Cass’s policy would be to “require unskilled illegal immigrants to leave.”Carlson is more extreme. On Dec. 4, Carlson told viewers that “a new analysis of census data shows that sixty-three percent of noncitizens in the U.S. receive some kind of welfare benefits,” before adding:Every night, hundreds of thousands of our citizens, Americans, sleep outdoors on the street, they’re homeless. The country’s middle class is shrinking and dying younger. The third year in a row. Again, these are American citizens. Some of them probably think they should have first dibs on help from the government, but they’re not getting it.Later that month, Carlson escalated his claim that immigration was too costly for Americans:It’s indefensible, so nobody even tries to defend it. Instead, our leaders demand that you shut up and accept this. We have a moral obligation to admit the world’s poor, they tell us, even if it makes our own country poor and dirtier and more divided.These comments proved highly controversial, to say the least. According to Business Insider, 16 companies stopped advertising on “The Tucker Carlson Show.”Michael Massing, a New York-based writer who often reports on the intersection of media and politics, watched Carlson for several nights after the January monologue in an attempt to assess where Carlson really stood. In a Feb. 2 article in the Guardian, Massing wrote:Overall, his show continues to transmit Fox’s toxic blend of race-baiting and reality distortion, through which it has done so much to poison the American mind. What, then, to make of Carlson? Is he a cynic? A hypocrite? A headlong pursuer of ratings? Perhaps he’s best described as a charter member of the same ruling class that in his monologue he indicted for working so intently to divide and confuse the American people.In addition to the discrete conservative factions Cass and Carlson represent, there is another dissident wing of conservatism, represented by the Niskanen Center, which attempts to appeal to moderates and centrists of both parties.“Working within the broad and diverse intellectual tradition of liberalism, we are fashioning a new synthesis that closes the rift within that tradition that emerged over the question of socialism,” Brink Lindsey, the center’s vice president for policy, wrote in an essay seeking to explain the broad goals of the organization.Lindsey, in contrast to Cass, is far more critical of the contemporary right than of the left.Over the course of the 21st century, the conservative movement, and with it the Republican Party, has fallen ever more deeply under the sway of an illiberal and nihilistic populism — illiberal in its crude exploitation of religious, racial, and cultural divisions; nihilistic in its blithe indifference to governance and the established norms and institutions of representative self-government. This malignant development made possible the nomination and election of Donald Trump, whose two years in power have only accelerated conservatism’s and the GOP’s descent into the intellectual and moral gutter.Despite his severe view of the Republican Party, Lindsey contends that the goal of the Niskanen think tank is the “reimagining of the center-right”:It is our goal to make the case for a principled center-right in American politics today that is distinctly different from either movement conservatism or its degenerate, populist offshoot.One question, of course is, what kind of policy options a center-right think tank can offer to disaffected voters on matters involving race and immigration, subjects that help drive the very polarization they regret.One of Tucker Carlson’s own primary concerns is immigration — and, as a likely subtext, race.Carlson argues that capitalism is “not a religion but a tool like a toaster or staple gun.” He is focusing attention, in fact, on the godless capitalism that Will Wilkinson of the Niskanen Center, described in “How Godless Capitalism Made America Multicultural” — a problem that Wilkinson correctly points out affects “all wealthy, liberal-democratic countries.”Wilkinson explains:The project of fashioning an ethnoreligious American identity has always been in conflict with a dominant and defining American impulse: to get rich. The United States has always been a distinctly commercial republic with expansionary, imperial impulses. High demand for workers and settlers led early on to a variegated population that encouraged the idea, largely traceable to Tom Paine, that American national identity is civic and ideological rather than racial and ethnic.Contemporary political polarization reflects the intensification of the endless struggle to integrate America and, more recently, to assimilate millions of newcomers, some legal, some not.Wilkinson addresses this conundrum:Assimilation is an issue not because it isn’t happening, but because it is. The issue is that the post-1968 immigrants and their progeny are here at all. And their successful assimilation means that American culture, and American national identity, has already been updated and transformed.This process can be very hard for some people, especially white voters over 50 (a strong Trump constituency) to accept:Swift and dramatic cultural changes can leave us with the baffled feeling that the soil in which we laid down roots has somehow become foreign. Older people who have largely lost the capacity to easily assimilate to a new culture can feel that the rug has been pulled out from under them.The result, according to Wilkinson, to whom I will give the last word, is thatrapid cultural change can make a truly common national identity hard to come by, if not impossible. It’s not clear to me how important it is to have one. But it does seem that a badly bifurcated cultural self-understanding can have very dramatic and potentially dangerous political consequences. David Cameron imperiled the integrity of the entire European Union by fundamentally misunderstanding the facts about the evolution of British national identity and putting it up for a vote. Donald Trump, you may have noticed, has called for a referendum on American national identity, and he’s getting one.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanAs President Trump delivered his State of the Union address on Tuesday, two guests sitting in the gallery and listening closely were immigrants he has long known. They cleaned Mr. Trump’s cottage at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J., despite lacking legal status in the United States.Victorina Morales and Sandra Diaz were among some 20 immigrants, many of them facing possible deportation, on the list of guests seated in the secure gallery for the annual address.Even as the president wrapped his speech in a theme of national unity, he made immigration — his signature issue — central to it, as divisive as it may be. His determination to build a wall along the southern border led recently to a 35-day government shutdown, and ahead of the next government funding deadline, on Feb. 15, there is still no deal in sight.“I never imagined I would set foot in such an important place,” Ms. Morales, 46, a native of Guatemala who worked at Mr. Trump’s golf resort for five years, said after the speech. “I was an immigrant representing many immigrants in this country who don’t want to show their faces because of what the president says. I was there for the 11 million undocumented.”Ms. Diaz, 47, a native of Costa Rica who is now a legal resident of the United States, said she “felt like Cinderella” attending the speech. But sitting in full view of the Trump family, whom she had seen frequently at Bedminster, and seeing the president deliver his address, she said, she had hoped he would have kinder words for undocumented immigrants.“It was hard to be face to face with him and realize he didn’t change his position, especially for those of us who helped his businesses prosper,” she said. “I had the trust to be inside his home and serve him.”[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]But the two former housekeepers, invited by a pair of Democratic lawmakers, represent just one side of the fractious immigration debate: Among those Mr. Trump invited were a daughter, a granddaughter and a great-granddaughter of Gerald and Sharon David, a Nevada couple killed in their home last month. An immigrant from Central America who was believed to be in the country illegally has been charged in the case.Republican lawmakers chose guests whose experiences they believe bolstered their calls for a crackdown on illegal immigration and fortification of the southern border.Michael C. Burgess, a Republican lawmaker from Texas, hosted Chris Odette, whose daughter, Chrishia, 13, was struck and killed as she was crossing the street in 2014 by a vehicle driven by an undocumented immigrant who had no driver’s license. The driver was freed on bail and evaded immigration authorities when they went to arrest him, said Mr. Odette, a resident of Rockwall, Tex.“It is important to me to hear that the president is doing something to address the immigration issue,” Mr. Odette said. “People who keep trying to block it don’t seem to care because they are not touched by the loss.”Senator Marsha Blackburn and Representative Tim Burchett, both Tennessee Republicans, invited the parents of Pierce Corcoran, 22, who died in a head-on vehicle collision in December with an undocumented immigrant in the Knoxville area.Also among the Republican invitees were leaders of the United States Border Patrol union, which has been a staunch backer of the president and his plan for a wall on the border.Democratic lawmakers, for their part, hosted immigrants who have been targeted by the Trump administration’s more vigorous immigration enforcement policies, including mothers separated from their children under the “zero-tolerance” border policy, which was suspended in late June amid widespread public outrage.Albertina Contreras and Yakelin Garcia, a Guatemalan mother and daughter invited by Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon, were separated at the border on May 24 and were unable to communicate for more than a month before being reunited on July 12. Having fled domestic violence, they are living in Murfreesburo, Tenn., while they fight in court to remain in the United States.“I want to live here and get papers. It is a privilege to be here,” said Yakelin, who wore a black-and-white dress and a matching blazer for the occasion, which coincided with her 12th birthday.Gerald Michaud, 47, has been living in Brooklyn under Temporary Protected Status since an earthquake ravaged his native Haiti in 2010. The T.P.S. program enables him to live and work in the United States, but the Trump administration has moved to cancel the program later this year for Haitians, Salvadorans and others.“I am proud to represent more than 300,000 immigrants who would like a permanent solution,” said Mr. Michaud, who is a wheelchair attendant at La Guardia Airport and teaches martial arts to at-risk youths. “We are afraid. I am working legally, which I cannot do if I lose T.P.S.”The State of the Union address has long been a platform for presidents to report on key issues and seek congressional support. This is not the first time that it has been used to make a statement about the nation’s lingering divisions over immigration. In 2016, President Barack Obama invited a Syrian refugee to his State of the Union address to send the message that refugees were not a threat to the country.But what will distinguish this year’s speech from past years’ is the sheer number of invitees whose immigration status is uncertain because of the president’s policies.The attorney general of California, Xavier Becerra, delivered the Democrats’ Spanish-language response to Mr. Trump’s address. That, too, focused in part on immigration. “Tonight was about convincing us that, from here on out, the deceit and dysfunction would stop and that cooperation would begin,” Mr. Becerra said. “What we heard was the same tired refrain of building walls.”As for Ms. Morales and Ms. Diaz, the former housekeepers at the president’s golf club, Tuesday night marked a first. Until recently, neither had been to Washington before, let alone attended a joint session of Congress. Their appearance began with an invitation to Ms. Morales from Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman of New Jersey.“This year, there is no issue more important than the way this administration is using immigrants as an excuse to build a wall that doesn’t work,” said Ms. Watson Coleman, who represents the district where Ms. Morales resides.In recent weeks, the two women have been meeting with members of Congress and aides all over Capitol Hill, hoping to spur an investigation into the difference between the president’s harsh words on immigration and his companies’ own hiring policies.“We wanted to highlight the hypocrisy of the administration,” said Jimmy Gomez, the Democratic congressman from Los Angeles who invited Ms. Diaz. “The president demonizes immigrants, documented and undocumented, and also relies heavily on them.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookBy Jon CaramanicaThe video for “A Lot,” 21 Savage’s elegiac single, takes place at a formal dinner and party in a cloud-high mansion, a lavish and exuberant celebration of black wealth. But there’s a moving sequence midway through that suggests trouble just beneath the surface.The cuts are quick — warm shots of confident guests at the dinner table interspersed with darker scenes in which they’re suffering: poor health, financial hardship, criminal past, abuse, death of a loved one. The message of the video isn’t exactly that nothing is as it seems, but more that where you end up may be far from where you came from, and that success doesn’t cure all obstacles.When 21 Savage first emerged in 2015, he was a cold brutalist of a rapper whose verses verged on the dead-eyed. But just a few years on, he’s taken a turn to the reflective. Later in the video, he added a ruminative new verse to the song, rapping, “Went through some things, but I couldn’t imagine my kids stuck at the border,” directly addressing the current administration’s divisive immigration policies.[Never miss a pop music story: Get our weekly newsletter, Louder.]On Sunday, just a couple of days after that video’s release, 21 Savage was arrested by agents of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which said he was in this country illegally and placed him into deportation proceedings. As of Wednesday afternoon, he remained in ICE custody.Is 21 Savage American? By any measurement other than citizenship, yes. He was born She’yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph in England in 1992. According to Charles Kuck, one of his immigration attorneys, he came to the United States at age 7 and has been here continuously ever since, apart from a one-month period in 2005. He then re-entered the country on an H-4 visa, which expired in 2006, leaving him without legal status.But the events of the last few days underscore the ways in which the hard power of government authority and soft power of online conversation can align in peculiar and insidious ways. As news began to spread on social media of 21 Savage’s arrest on Sunday, the meme and joke ecosystem that uses trauma as oxygen went into overdrive, reacting with special intensity to the revelation that 21 Savage — one of the titans of Atlanta’s rap scene — was in fact British. As the government put his relationship with this country in peril, thousands of people chirped in online to poke at the unlikeliness, and precariousness, of his situation.That 21 Savage is in fact a British national is, ultimately, not particularly revelatory, or even meaningful. Foreign-born residents made up 13.7 percent of the United States population in 2017, according to the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey, published last year (which includes those in the country legally and illegally). Most of the humor turned on a high-society caricature understanding of England, and the dissonance of locating someone like 21 Savage — a seen-it-all stoicist with a dagger tattooed on his forehead — inside it. By and large, those people overlooked, or didn’t think as far as, the more odious association: that of empire and colonization. (His mother’s family hails from Dominica, a former British colony in the West Indies.)His success, however, is especially American. Growing up in some of Atlanta’s poorest communities, 21 Savage had a troubled childhood. He’s said that he dropped out of school to sell drugs, and has spoken in interviews of a youth marked by violence and crime. But after losing a close friend and a brother to gun violence, he turned to rapping. And within a year, he was one of Atlanta’s most promising prospects.He’s since worked with Drake, Cardi B and Post Malone. His 2017 debut album, “Issa Album,” went gold, and his second studio album, “I Am > I Was,” released in December, debuted at the top of the Billboard album chart. At this Sunday’s Grammy Awards, 21 Savage is nominated in two categories.He has also been maturing in the public eye — advocating for gun control, donating money to educate young people in Atlanta on financial literacy (an announcement made on Ellen DeGeneres’s show, of all places), even walking alongside then-girlfriend Amber Rose in 2017 at her SlutWalk, a women’s empowerment event, carrying a sign that read “I’m a Hoe Too.”This is the American promise, no? To start from nothing and turn it into a bounty. To receive a cruel hand and still emerge victorious.And yet there is this other American promise, or threat, which is that all that comfort can be easily ripped away if it isn’t achieved in the correct fashion.In the case of 21 Savage, whose public image was built on a kind of impenetrable toughness mixed with weary resilience, this moment of vulnerability was destabilizing. Even in his most intimate music, he never presents as anything other than an agent of control.But the immigration system is beyond his jurisdiction, even though, since becoming a public figure, he has taken steps to address his status. According to a statement released by his attorneys on Tuesday, in 2017 he applied for a U visa, which, according to United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, can be issued by the government to crime victims “who have suffered mental or physical abuse and are helpful to law enforcement or government officials in the investigation or prosecution of criminal activity.” 21 Savage has said he was shot in 2013. The statement did not specify whether he cooperated with authorities.The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported that 21 Savage was arrested at the same time DeKalb County police arrested another rapper, Young Nudy, on unrelated charges. But 21 Savage was detained directly by ICE, Kuck said. 21 Savage also was convicted on felony drug charges in 2014. The conviction record was expunged in September 2018 as part of Georgia’s first-offender program and the files have been sealed, according to Jacoby Hudson, who represented 21 Savage in the matter.(Though expunged convictions have been used in deportation proceedings, 21 Savage would be eligible for removal simply for the overstayed visa.)21 Savage is now among the highest-profile immigration detainees, his situation instantly becoming a flash point in national conversations about people living in this country without legal status, and in dialogues about the ways in which immigrants contribute to American society. A petition asking for his release started by Black Lives Matter has amassed over 200,000 signatures.A star who built his own success, 21 Savage has in one fell swoop re-emerged as someone in need of protection. But in his recent music and public life, his identity was already becoming more complex and nuanced, delivering tales about the horrors of life at the bottom salted with a fresh understanding of just how slippery it can be at the top.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAs secretary of homeland security, she signed the memorandum that created the popular program protecting ‘Dreamers.’ Now she’s fighting to save it.By Cristian FariasMr. Farias is a member of the editorial board.For all his efforts to undo the work of the prior administration, President Trump’s most striking failure has been his attempt to reverse the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program — a reprieve from deportation President Barack Obama issued nearly seven years ago to undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. In September 2017, Mr. Trump ordered an end to the program, known as DACA. The administration argued that it was an improper use of executive power that circumvented Congress and protected people who were breaking the law. But beginning in January of last year, a number of judges put a hold on DACA’s demise, finding the administration’s legal reasoning for ending it weak and in violation of the Administrative Procedure Act. Mr. Trump tried to offer a limited, statutory version of DACA as a bargaining chip during negotiations to end the government shutdown. But when the Supreme Court kept those holds in place while the appeals continued, its barter value was eliminatedAs secretary of homeland security under Mr. Obama, Janet Napolitano signed the memorandum that put DACA in place. In a legal twist, she’s now defending her handiwork in court, this time as president of the University of California, which has thousands of DACA students and is suing to overturn the DACA reversal. So she has a unique viewpoint of the controversy.This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.Q. When you signed the memorandum that created the DACA program in 2012, did you ever imagine it would take on a life of its own?A. No. (Laughs). I thought it would help a group of individuals who were undocumented in the country who in any circumstance would be low-enforcement priorities. But nonetheless, so long as they didn’t have any protection they were always having to look over their shoulder and, of course, they couldn’t get work authorization. And it just seemed to me that that was just wrong. And when Congress was unable to pass a Dream Act [which would write DACA-like protections into law and offer a path to citizenship], we began looking at what could the executive branch do. And we settled on the theory that the executive branch always has the authority to establish prosecution priorities. [The Department of] Justice doesn’t prosecute bad-check cases, they prosecute bank fraud cases. And it seems that in immigration enforcement the same theory would apply. That’s what we based the creation of DACA on.Q. This concept of “prosecutorial discretion” is the linchpin of the DACA program. And yet the Trump administration has said very little about prosecutorial discretion in these legal challenges. A. I think it’s because they proceed on the theory that DACA was illegal from its inception. And of course it’s not illegal. The administration, the Obama administration, had the authority to establish priorities for immigration enforcement. And DACA is simply a reflection of that. And I think having announced the rescission of DACA by saying it was illegal to have DACA, they led with their chin.Q. Was your decision to institute DACA controversial with D.H.S. leadership and the rank and file? Your memorandum was addressed to the different components at the Department of Homeland Security — a very law-and-order-type agency.A. No. The main component that has the responsibility for carrying out DACA is U.S.C.I.S. [the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]. Those are the folks that help people adjust their citizenship status, so this was in a way very consistent with their ethos. And with respect to ICE [Immigration and Customs Enforcement], if there was any resistance in the field, it never came to my attention.Q. President Obama called DACA a “temporary stopgap measure,” and instinctively, I imagine, you always understood a future administration could get rid of it. And yet here we are. To what would you attribute DACA’s endurance?A. One, its sheer numbers — close to 800,000-some-odd DACA recipients. And they’re attending colleges and universities. They’re…some of them have started their own small businesses. They’re homeowners. By now they’re parents. They’re well entrenched in the fabric of U.S. life. And when DACA was announced by the president, it got virtually no pushback. It was popular from the get-go. And the polling on it continues to show that it’s very popular. I think that has helped sustain it. If the administration were going to make a decision to rescind it, there was a right way and a wrong way to do that, and they did it the wrong way.Q. Nearly seven years later, the Trump administration believes, as do some states, that DACA is unconstitutional — an executive usurpation of power. A. It wasn’t and it isn’t. It’s a fair exercise of the executive’s authority. And it’s interesting to contrast the administration’s arguments on the travel ban, for example, [which] are based on the broad authority of the executive in enforcing immigration law. And it’s exactly that kind of authority that they’re trying to restrict in the DACA litigation. So consistency isn’t their best thing.Q. Arizona, which you led as governor prior to becoming Homeland Security secretary, recently allowed Dreamers to obtain driver’s licenses after a prolonged legal battle. Why this lingering antipathy toward the program’s beneficiaries from a few isolated quarters?A. Maybe it links to immigration politics generally, not just about DACA — the feeling that immigrants are here, they’re here against the law, they’re taking jobs away from Americans, they’re depressing wages, they’re taking all these public benefits, and they ought to all be deported. That kind of feeling about immigration generally still spills over to antipathy toward Dreamers, which, as you know, were brought here as children. And most of them really know only the United States as home.Q. Many people would be surprised to learn that you’re now fighting the DACA reversal in the courts as president of the University of California. Why did you jump into this dispute?A. I thought DACA was right then, and I thought DACA was right now. And the only thing that would be better would be for Congress to finally take up some of these immigration issues and resolve them permanently in statute.Q. Judges in California, New York and Washington, D.C., who have ruled against the administration have had harsh words for the way then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions and the Department of Homeland Security went about rescinding DACA. Do you take that as vindication?A. Yeah! (Laughs.)Q. What do you make of the Supreme Court’s recent inaction on DACA? It doesn’t look like the justices will be weighing in this term.A. I can only speculate. One speculation is an institutional reluctance to take a case that there’s no urgency about. The DACA program has remained in place since we got the original injunction. And there’s no immediate urgency to taking this case. And to do so would put the court in the middle of whatever is going on between the president and the Congress. So maybe there’s a little recognition that this is not the place where the Supreme Court should be jumping.Q. Is DACA your biggest legacy?A. It’s either that or T.S.A. PreCheck. (Laughs.)The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy Engle and Katherine SchultenPresident Trump delivered his second State of the Union address on Tuesday night. The speech was scheduled for last month, but was postponed because of the partial government shutdown, prompted by Mr. Trump’s demand that Congress pay for a wall along the southern border with Mexico.Were you watching? Why or why not?Though we welcome your reactions to what the president said — and to the Democratic response — in this forum we’re chiefly asking how you think our country is doing right now.Are we better off than we were a year ago? Two years ago? Why or why not? What are the main issues we face, in your opinion? In general, how strong is the state of our union right now?In Trump Asks for Unity, but Presses Hard Line on Immigration, The Times summarizes the speech and the reaction to it:President Trump delivered a message of bipartisan unity on Tuesday night in his first address to Congress in the new era of divided government, but signaled that he would continue to wage war for the hard-line immigration policies that have polarized the capital and the nation.In a nationally televised speech that toggled between conciliation and confrontation, Mr. Trump presented himself as a leader who could work across party lines even as he pressed lawmakers to build a wall along the nation’s southwestern border that leaders of the newly empowered congressional Democrats have adamantly rejected....The change in the power structure in a Capitol long dominated by men was on display as Ms. Pelosi and scores of House Democratic women wore white, the color of the suffrage movement, reflecting the fact that 131 women were sworn into the new Congress, the most in American history.When Mr. Trump noted this breakthrough, the women leapt to their feet, cheering, dancing and high-fiving each other. “That’s really great,” he said. “Congratulations.”He made no direct mention of the issues that may yet come to dominate the year, such as the Russia investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, or the parallel inquiries that House Democrats intend to conduct into his campaign’s ties with Russia and efforts to impede investigations.Instead, he alluded to them only in passing, but pointedly. “An economic miracle is taking place in the United States,” he said, “and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations.”But Mr. Trump indicated no retreat from his almost singular pursuit of a border wall, directly taking on Ms. Pelosi, who has called it “immoral.” He devoted 15 minutes of the hour-and-22-minute speech to immigration with no concession to Democratic priorities like a path to citizenship for immigrants brought into the country illegally as children.“This is a moral issue,” Mr. Trump said as Ms. Pelosi sat unmoved behind him. “No issue better illustrates the divide between America’s working class and America’s political class than illegal immigration,” he added. “Wealthy politicians and donors push for open borders while living their lives behind walls and gates and guards.”In the official Democratic response, Stacey Abrams, who lost a close race for governor of Georgia in November, scorned the idea of unity from a president who has practiced the politics of division. “We know bipartisanship could craft a 21st-century immigration plan,” she said, “but this administration chooses to cage children and tear families apart.”Ms. Abrams, who is African-American, challenged Mr. Trump’s history of racial provocation, saying, “We must hold everyone from the highest offices to our families accountable for racist words and deeds and call racism what it is — wrong.”The president’s speech, built on a theme of “choosing greatness,” came at a pivotal moment halfway through the president’s term as he seeks to regain momentum after the midterm election defeat that handed control of the House to Democrats and after his failed effort to use a partial government shutdown to extract money for the wall.Students, please tell us:— Is the state of our union strong, in your opinion? In other words, how do you think the country is doing right now? Are we doing better, worse or the same as we were a year ago? What should be the nation’s priorities? What are the biggest issues we face? For instance, do you agree with President Trump’s focus on immigration and the need for a border wall?— What is your reaction to President Trump’s State of the Union address? What, to you, were the most memorable moments or lines? How effective do you think it was over all?— What reactions to the address — whether from political commentators, members of Congress, social media or your friends and family — did you find most interesting? Why?— Which descriptions of the state of our union that you have heard or read this week do you find most compelling or persuasive? Why?— If you were to make your own one-minute State of the Union speech, what would you say? Why? What issues, policies, ideas or themes would you highlight?Further Resources:For more background and context, students might watch this Times video of President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union address, from January 2016, and this video of Mr. Trump’s first State of the Union address in January 2018. And you can follow along via this page for all Times coverage on the State of the Union address.Or, check out our 2013 lesson plan Assessing the Address: State of the Union Lesson Ideas.Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensImmigration officials have been force-feeding a half dozen detainees who began a hunger strike to protest conditions at a processing center in Texas where they are being held, the authorities said Thursday.In a statement, Immigration and Customs Enforcement said that as of Wednesday night, 11 detainees in El Paso had refused to eat; four other individuals at different ICE detention centers across the country were also on hunger strike, officials said.Of the 11 people starving themselves in El Paso, six were being hydrated and force-fed under court orders issued by a federal judge in mid-January — about two weeks after those detainees stopped eating, ICE said. Two of the 11 people began their hunger strike on Wednesday, officials added.“The ICE Health Services Corps is medically monitoring the detainees’ health and regularly updating ICE of their medical status,” the agency’s statement said. “Efforts are being taken to protect the detainees’ health and privacy.”A lawyer for two of the immigrants on hunger strike and an advocate who said her nonprofit group had been in contact with nine of them said that those who were force-fed have had to endure pain and had bled from their noses. (Force-feeding is performed using a tube through the nose.)Many of the detainees, the lawyer and the advocate said, came to the United States seeking asylum after fleeing persecution in India. Since arriving in the United States, they have had to withstand verbal abuse from immigration officials and threats about deportation, the lawyer, Ruby Kaur, said.Ms. Kaur said those who went on hunger strike were placed in solitary confinement as punishment. One of her clients has lost between 40 and 50 pounds as a result of the strike, she said.“You’re fleeing persecution, you come to this country, and you are being tortured here as well,” she said. “The only avenue they have is to peacefully protest.”The advocate, Christina Fialho, the co-executive director of the nonprofit Freedom for Immigrants, said as many as 30 people could be on hunger strike in El Paso, a higher figure than the one ICE provided.The use of force-feeding, she said, represented an escalation in the tactics used by immigration officials on detainees.“It’s barbaric,” she added.An ICE spokeswoman did not comment directly on the allegations leveled by Ms. Kaur and Ms. Fialho. But the agency said that it does not retaliate in any way against hunger strikers and that it tells detainees about the negative health effects of not eating. Officials closely monitor the food and water intake of detainees who have been identified as being on hunger strike, they said.The Associated Press reported the hunger strikes and use of force feeding earlier this week.Since May 2015, Freedom for Immigrants has documented 1,396 people on hunger strike in 18 immigration detention facilities across the United States, Ms. Fialho said. Generally, she added, detainees starve themselves as a way to protest unsanitary and abusive conditions at their holding facilities as well as the length of their detention, which often appears to them to be indefinite.Although court orders have allowed officials to administer fluids to detainees intravenously, Ms. Fialho said she was aware of only one other instance — in Georgia in 2017 — when a court allowed someone to be force-fed at an immigration detention center. Attempts to locate the court orders referred to by ICE on Thursday were unsuccessful.Force-feeding people is an “uncomfortable practice” in which “you put in a tube through the nose, and then you pour a nutritional formula through the tube,” said Dr. Arthur Caplan, a professor of bioethics at New York University’s School of Medicine.“Putting the tube through the nose is often painful, particularly if the person is resisting,” Dr. Caplan said.People who are fed involuntarily can lose muscle mass, Dr. Caplan added, and in the Texas case, prisoners could become infection-prone.Top medical associations have condemned the practice. In a 2006 statement, the World Medical Association said “the forced feeding of hunger strikers is unethical, and is never justified.”The number of migrants asking the United States for asylum out of fear of returning to their home countries jumped nearly 70 percent in 2018 compared with 2017, according to Department of Homeland Security data released in December. And as the number of people held at ICE processing centers has swelled, the conditions at them have come under scrutiny.Last fall, the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of the Inspector General issued a 15-page “alert” after an unannounced visit to the Adelanto immigrant detention center in Southern California. Federal inspectors there found that 15 out of 20 cells they looked at had what they described as nooses made of braided bedsheets hanging from vents. The report also raised questions about inadequate medical care and “overly restrictive segregation” of the immigrants housed at the ICE processing center in Adelanto.In the meantime, the Trump administration has made several efforts to limit refugees. In November it announced new rules giving the president vast authority to deny asylum to virtually any migrant who crosses the border illegally. The Supreme Court, however, refused to allow the Trump administration to immediately enforce its new policy.Around the same time in December, the Trump administration announced that the United States would begin requiring people seeking asylum at the southwest border to wait in Mexico for a court ruling on their cases.Elisha Brown contributed reporting and Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPresident Trump vowed in last year’s speech to pass an immigration overhaul, bring down drug prices and revamp the United States’ infrastructure. How much progress has he made? By Linda QiuIn his first State of the Union address last year, President Trump outlined his vision for an “America first” approach to overhauling the immigration system, revitalizing manufacturing and prioritizing national interests abroad. As Mr. Trump prepares to deliver his second address on Tuesday, which is also expected to highlight the president’s immigration agenda, here’s an assessment of his progress on the promises he made last year. The promise “It is time to reform these outdated immigration rules, and finally bring our immigration system into the 21st century. These four pillars represent a down-the-middle compromise, and one that will create a safe, modern and lawful immigration system. For over 30 years, Washington has tried and failed to solve this problem. This Congress can be the one that finally makes it happen.”Attempts to pass a comprehensive immigration overhaul failed in Congress, with proposals backed by the White House receiving the least support.The “four pillars” Mr. Trump described are providing a pathway to citizenship for the young immigrants known as Dreamers, building a wall on the southern border, ending the “diversity lottery” visa program and limiting family-based immigration.In February 2018, the Senate rejected three immigration bills. The White House plan, which met all four of Mr. Trump’s requirements, received the fewest votes. The two other bills did not fulfill all the requirements. In June, the House rejected another bill that included the four pillars as well as a more hard-line measure that did not provide a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers, who were brought to the country illegally as children.And Mr. Trump’s address this year comes after a 35-day government shutdown, the longest ever, over the president’s demand for border wall funding. The promise “Chrysler is moving a major plant from Mexico to Michigan; Toyota and Mazda are opening up a plant in Alabama. Soon, plants will be opening up all over the country.”Toyota and Mazda broke ground on their $1.6 billion joint venture in Alabama in November. Chrysler had announced that it would move production of heavy-duty pickups — not the plant itself — from Mexico to Michigan, but has since paused those plans.A database maintained by the Reshoring Initiative, a group that encourages companies to move back to the United States, listed plans by Chevrolet to expand car battery production in Michigan, Ford’s unveiling of a 3-D printing operation in the state and the opening of a new factory in Ohio by a Japanese company that makes prototype parts. But no other company has announced or opened a new assembly plant in the United States. In contrast, General Motors said it would idle five car factories. New rules for automakers in the successor to the North American Free Trade Agreement would require automakers to eventually produce 75 percent — up from 62.5 percent — of a vehicle’s content in North America to qualify for zero tariffs. But the deal still awaits congressional ratification. And the changes would do little to encourage investment in the United States since “most vehicles are going to be able to get over those new thresholds pretty easily,” said Kristin Dziczek, vice president for industry, labor and economics at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.Even if the administration raised tariffs on foreign car imports, spurring investment in the United States, automakers would still be mindful of the volatility of Mr. Trump’s trade policies and “investment would sit on the sidelines,” Ms. Dziczek said.Employment in the auto industry has increased slightly under Mr. Trump’s watch, to about one million in November 2018 from 955,800 in January 2017. The number of vehicles manufactured in the United States has continued to decline, even after a slight uptick last summer. According to the Reshoring Initiative, announcements to increase investment or move companies back to the United States peaked in 2016.The promise “We will work to fix bad trade deals and negotiate new ones. And we will protect American workers and American intellectual property, through strong enforcement of our trade rules.”Mr. Trump has renegotiated Nafta and a bilateral trade deal with South Korea.While the changes to the South Korea agreement were modest, the revised Nafta strengthens intellectual property rights in Canada. An investigation into China’s trade practices concluded that Beijing had, among other unfair trade practices, violated American intellectual property rights. As a result, the Trump administration imposed tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese products. The two sides are in talks over a trade deal to resolve the dispute.The promise “People who are terminally ill should not have to go from country to country to seek a cure — I want to give them a chance right here at home. It is time for the Congress to give these wonderful Americans the ‘right to try.’”Mr. Trump signed “Right to Try” legislation into law in May, allowing terminally ill patients to seek access to experimental medicine that is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration.A similar program known as compassionate use, or expanded access, has been in place since the 1970s, and the F.D.A. says it authorizes 99 percent of the requests it receives. The new law allows patients, with the approval of their doctor, to ask drug companies directly for access, rather than wait for approval by the agency.The promise “That is why I have directed my administration to make fixing the injustice of high drug prices one of our top priorities. Prices will come down.”Drug prices are still increasing, albeit at lower rates than in previous years.An Associated Press analysis found that from January to July 2018, drug companies raised prices on more than 4,400 products, with a median increase of 5.2 percent. That was lower than the median increase of 8 percent for the same period in 2017. Drug prices have continued to increase on hundreds of medicines this year.The promise “Tonight, I am calling on the Congress to produce a bill that generates at least $1.5 trillion for the new infrastructure investment we need.”No comprehensive bill has emerged since Mr. Trump nudged Congress to act.A detailed version of Mr. Trump’s proposal, released by the White House in February 2018, pledged $200 billion in federal funding (less than half of what the Trump transition team promised in December 2016). The money would come from savings from other cuts in the federal budget, according to the White House, and would spur states and private companies to invest $1.5 trillion in infrastructure over the next decade.Yet Congress has not passed any bill that would make good on this $200 billion proposal. Draft legislation to temporarily increase the gas tax to shore up the Highway Trust Fund was never formalized or voted on.The promise “I call on the Congress to empower every cabinet secretary with the authority to reward good workers — and to remove federal employees who undermine the public trust or fail the American people.”Mr. Trump signed an executive order in May making it easier to fire government employees, but a federal judge struck down most of its provisions. A similar bill was introduced in the House but did not advance to a vote.The promise “For this reason, I am asking the Congress to end the dangerous defense sequester and fully fund our great military.”While Congress has not yet repealed the defense sequester limiting military spending, lawmakers effectively ignored it and increased funding last year.The Budget Control Act of 2011 imposes caps on federal spending for the next decade, to compel Congress to find savings in the budget. If lawmakers do not reduce spending, “sequestration” kicks in and enforces the caps. Later spending deals raised the caps, limiting military spending to $549 billion in the 2018 fiscal year and $562 billion in the 2019 fiscal year.Mr. Trump signed legislation that allotted the Pentagon $629 billion and $647 billion in 2018 and 2019 fiscal years, far exceeding the spending limits. (Those figures do not include a separate Pentagon account for war spending.)While the sequester is still in place for the 2020 and 2021 fiscal years, it is not difficult to imagine lawmakers and the president continuing to raise the cap — rendering the sequester moot.The promise“That is why, tonight, I am asking the Congress to pass legislation to help ensure American foreign-assistance dollars always serve American interests, and only go to America’s friends.”Congress ignored Mr. Trump’s calls to drastically reduce foreign aid, instead approving budgets that included billions more than the president had requested, and made no significant changes to foreign aid policy.Sarah Rose, an analyst at the Center for Global Development, said the administration had been constrained by Congress — and its own “fundamental inconsistency” in funneling money to friends and allies while simultaneously giving aid to countries that might not otherwise receive it in order to counter China’s influence. Mr. Trump has threatened to cut off aid to Central American countries over migrant caravans, and Nikki R. Haley, the former ambassador to the United Nations, had proposed making aid contingent on support for American-backed policies at the United Nations.Yet the amount of assistance given to Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador has been typical. And while the United States did end funding for Palestinian refugees in August, it did not follow through on withholding aid from countries that voted for a United Nations resolution condemning Mr. Trump’s decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, said Jeremy Konyndyk, a former director of the foreign disaster assistance program at the United States Agency for International Development.“The issue is that he made a promise that was well beyond his ability to accomplish,” Mr. Konyndyk said. “The president is not a monarch and can’t just do things unilaterally.”Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sandra E. GarciaUpdated Feb. 4Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials took the rapper 21 Savage into custody on Sunday for being in the United States illegally, according to an agency spokesman.21 Savage, whose real name is Sha Yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph, was arrested during an operation by federal and local law enforcement authorities in Atlanta, the spokesman, Bryan D. Cox, said in a statement.Mr. Abraham-Joseph is an “unlawfully present United Kingdom national” who legally entered the United States in 2005 but was supposed to leave the next year, according to the terms of his nonimmigrant visa, Mr. Cox said.[Is 21 Savage American? Our music critic weighs in.]In addition to being in the country unlawfully after 2006, Mr. Abraham-Joseph was convicted of felony drug charges in 2014 in Fulton County, Ga., the statement said.Mr. Abraham-Joseph faces deportation proceedings and was expected to appear before a federal immigration judge.“We are working diligently to get Mr. Abraham-Joseph out of detention while we work with the authorities to clear up any misunderstandings,” Dina LaPolt, Mr. Abraham-Joseph’s lawyer, said in a statement on Sunday night.In a statement on Monday, representatives of Mr. Abraham-Joseph said that he “has never hid his immigration status from the US government.”“As a minor, his family overstayed their work visas,” the statement said, and Mr. Abraham-Joseph “was left without legal status through no fault of his own.”His arrest came after he performed at the Super Bowl Music Fest at the State Farm Arena on Thursday.Mr. Abraham-Joseph has been nominated for a Grammy for Record of the Year for “Rockstar,” a song with the rapper Post Malone. Mr. Abraham-Joseph’s album “I Am > I Was” opened at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 in January. He is known for his flat delivery and subdued rap style.Mr. Abraham-Joseph has long maintained that he was from Atlanta. In August, he gave backpacks and games to children in Atlanta during an annual drive called Issa Back 2 School Drive.“Mr. Abraham-Joseph is a role model to the young people in this country, especially in Atlanta,” Ms. LaPolt said. She added that Mr. Abraham-Joseph was “actively working in the community leading programs to help underprivileged youths in financial literacy.”In a 2016 interview with VladTV, an urban news YouTube channel, Mr. Abraham-Joseph was asked where he grew up and he listed all the neighborhoods in Atlanta he had previously lived in.“I grew up on the East Side, Glenwood, Decatur,” Mr. Abraham-Joseph says. “I done grew up in all Atlanta really, everybody know me. If you don’t, you ain’t from this city.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Annie KarniWASHINGTON — President Trump plans to use his State of the Union address on Tuesday night to outline a bipartisan and optimistic vision of the country, a senior administration official said on Friday.It could be a difficult sell.In the past few weeks, as he has tried to navigate his way out of a political standoff with Democrats, Mr. Trump has ramped up his anti-immigration messaging, stormed out of meetings with Democratic leaders and refused to accept any compromise that does not ultimately include funding for a border wall.And while the White House said on Friday that the goal of the speech was to bring together a divided government and a divided nation, the official said immigration would emerge as the main theme.Mr. Trump is also expected to make an appeal to his evangelical anti-abortion base by talking about the “fundamental importance and respect for human life,” the official said. And he will focus a large portion of his remarks on the importance of ending illegal immigration.But the official, who refused to be identified according to the ground rules of the briefing, framed the speech as an opportunity to change the tone of the current political debate.“Together we can break decades of political stalemate,” Mr. Trump is expected to say, according to an excerpt from the speech shared by the official. “We can bridge old divisions, heal old wounds, build new coalitions, forge new solutions and unlock the extraordinary promise of America’s future. The decision is ours to make.”The overarching theme of the speech, the official said, will be “Choosing Greatness,” and it will focus on issues where there is a possibility of bipartisan consensus: infrastructure, lowering health care and prescription drug costs, protecting American workers affected by what he described as “decades of flawed trade deals” and safeguarding national security.The president will also call on Congress to replace what he described as the “Nafta disaster” with the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement and discuss the trading relationship with China.In his first State of the Union address last year, Mr. Trump also sought to strike a unifying tone that was a contrast to the political attacks and divisive messaging that he is better known for. But the promises in last year’s speech, including bringing Democrats and Republicans together behind a $1.5 trillion infrastructure plan, have not materialized, while the more contentious policies of his presidency have continued.This year, Mr. Trump will address the nation after a 35-day government shutdown caused by his insistence that Congress approve funding for the border wall. And although the president agreed to three weeks of negotiations to end the impasse, he said on Thursday that the talks are “a waste of time” and strongly hinted that he would declare a national emergency to bypass Congress and obtain wall funding.Mr. Trump suggested on Friday that he would announce his decision on declaring a national emergency during the State of the Union speech.“I don’t want to say,” he told reporters when asked if he was planning to do so. “You’ll hear the State of the Union and let’s see what happens,” he said.White House officials have been warning him against the action, but they also view it as a potential last-ditch exit ramp if they cannot find another face-saving solution.Last month, in the midst of the shutdown, Speaker Nancy Pelosi told the president she wanted to postpone the address, initially scheduled for Jan. 29, until after the government reopened, and suggested he deliver the speech in writing.Mr. Trump retaliated by grounding the military plane that was supposed to take Ms. Pelosi and other lawmakers on a fact-finding trip to Afghanistan. Then, when Mr. Trump pressed ahead, insisting he wanted to give the speech, Ms. Pelosi disinvited him. But this week she and the president agreed he would give the speech on Feb. 5.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCutting the number of beds in ICE facilities will just make things worse for immigrant detainees.By Anita Isaacs and Anne PrestonMs. Isaacs is a professor of political science at Haverford College. Ms. Preston is a professor of economics at Haverford College.As congressional negotiators were wrestling their way toward a compromise bill to fund the federal government this week, one sticking point emerged: the demand by Democrats to reduce the number of beds for immigrants detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. And while the details are complicated, Democrats claim that the legislation, which President Trump is expected to sign Friday, will bring the number of beds to 40,520, down from 49,057.But while well intentioned — the list of problems with the immigrant detention system is long — if the Democrats get their way, they will likely make conditions much worse for the tens of thousands of undocumented migrants and asylum seekers in limbo on both sides of the border.Cutting back beds highlights two major objections to the detention system. First, the system is an integral component of a private prison-industrial complex owned by a handful of companies, whose profits rely on mass incarceration. Second, because of the Trump administration’s criminalization of prospective asylum seekers and undocumented migrants, the vast majority of detainees are either Central American families fleeing horrific violence or law-abiding Central American and Mexican members of American society. About 58 percent of detainees have no criminal record, and only 20 percent have been convicted of serious felonies (including selling marijuana).We have spent the last few years researching migrant flows into the United States, and this data is consistent with research our team has conducted with roughly 300 returned Central American and Mexican migrants. For the most part, Central Americans were detained after crossing the border as they awaited an asylum hearing, while the majority of Mexicans spoke of being raised in the United States, playing by the rules and being apprehended for minor traffic violations — speeding, a broken taillight or driving without a license. None of the handful of deportees who were found guilty of more serious crimes had languished in immigration detention. They had been summarily deported after serving time in federal prison.Detention facilities also hamper the ability of both prospective refugees and undocumented migrants to gain asylum or to successfully plead their case to remain in the United States. Such facilities limit inmates’ communication with the outside world, a situation further compounded by their remote location. And once locked up, detainees are deprived of the means to earn the income required to hire the professional lawyers they need to have a realistic chance of success.The treatment migrants receive in detention centers is inhumane. While the traumas that detained children face are well documented, the adult immigrants we interviewed also told countless stories of abuse, including racist taunts, physical aggression and the deprivation of their most basic needs. Jason, a young man voluntarily traveling back to Mexico by bus, was apprehended on the bus and detained because his visa had expired two weeks earlier. He was sent to a detention facility. He told us of begging for food, only to have a guard toss a burrito onto the floor of a fly-infested cell that reeked of excrement. Israel Concha, a young man stopped for speeding and separated from his pregnant wife, described an immigration hearing in which he was prevented from even touching his newborn son.Such stories make it easy to see why Democrats pushed to shrink ICE’s capacity to detain people. But cutting back on capacity will not solve the abuses of immigration detention. In fact it is more likely to make things worse (a fact that Democrats have quietly conceded by allowing ICE to adjust the facilities’ capacity if they need to, which is why Republicans claim the actual number of beds allowed is much higher). It is foolhardy to imagine that, in response, the Trump administration will simply detain fewer people, in order to guarantee them all a bed. If anything, it will double down its enforcement of existing policies, rendering the lives of detainees even more of a living hell.Increasing numbers of prospective asylum seekers, subjected to the Remain in Mexico policy, would be dispatched to dangerous tent cities in Mexican border towns to wait their turn. Undocumented immigrants would be herded into increasingly cramped quarters or into county jails where conditions are even worse. Florizel, an undocumented Mexican teenager and convert to Mormonism whom we interviewed, described being apprehended and held in a county jail surrounded by pedophiles and murderers, “They left me in the cell for like almost like a whole day without water without food. And it was really cold. I would ask them, ‘Hey, but I didn't do anything!’ And they would just tell me to ‘shut up, friggin’ Mexican.’”Despite its horrors, many apprehended undocumented immigrants opt for detention as the least awful option. Those without a criminal track record are typically given a choice. They can leave the United States voluntarily, or be placed in detention to fight their removal. The vast majority of people we interviewed chose detention because they want a chance to defend themselves and can’t face the prospect of upending their entire lives by leaving. Mr. Concha opted for detention with the faint hope of preserving his life in the United States. “I wanted to fight ’til the end,” he told us. “I had a company and all my family was here. I wanted to know the final outcome instead of wondering all my life, ‘What if I would have fought? What if I did have a chance? What if the laws change?’”To the extent that Democrats are serious about immigration reform, restricting beds is more a gimmick than a solution. Absent the comprehensive reform desperately needed, Democrats should use their new political capital to protect migrant rights. That means demanding more humane treatment at detention centers, guaranteeing the right to asylum for refugees from the region, assuring due process for the majority of undocumented migrants who are upstanding members of our society, and requiring that ICE focus its resources on detaining and deporting only those migrants who have committed truly serious crimes. We know what is needed. What we lack is the political will and commitment to push forward an agenda that restores humanity and legality to a broken and corrupt system.Anita Isaacs is a professor of political science at Haverford College. Anne Preston is a professor of economics at Haverford College.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Christina Goldbaum[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Facing serious overcrowding in immigration courts, federal authorities in New York adopted a high-tech solution last year: Immigrants would be kept in detention centers for their legal proceedings, appearing before judges only by videoconference.Now, a new lawsuit claims that the policy infringes upon immigrants’ constitutional rights in a deliberate attempt to speed up and increase deportations.The lawsuit, filed on Tuesday in the Federal District Court in Manhattan, asserted that detained immigrants could not fully communicate with their lawyers and participate in proceedings when their only interaction with immigration court was through video.As a result, the lawsuit said, immigrants who might otherwise be granted the ability to stay in the United States instead could be deported. The suit cited several instances when videoconferencing had harmful effects on immigrants and their hearings.One immigrant spent three extra months in detention because his jail’s one videoconferencing line connecting inmates to immigration court had been double booked.Another was afraid to testify about his sexual orientation because Immigrations and Customs Enforcement officers at the detention facility where he was being held were listening as he spoke to the court in a videocall.The interpreter for a third had difficulty understanding an immigrant as he sobbed through his two-hour testimony, because his words were muffled over the audio feed of the videoconference.ICE has justified videoconferencing as an efficient way to address the backlog at the immigration court on Varick Street in Manhattan.An ICE spokeswoman said she could not comment on pending litigation.But the lawsuit said the videoconferencing was “merely pretext for the true reasoning behind the policy — limiting due process, access to the courts and counsel for immigrants in an effort to rush deportations and deport more people.”Immigration courts have been overwhelmed by cases for over a decade, but the suit put a spotlight on efforts under the Trump administration to tackle the backlog by speeding up proceedings. The strategy has drawn criticism from immigration lawyers, advocates and judges, who argue that expediting proceedings can rob immigrants of a fair trial.To address overwhelmed dockets, former Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced in April 2017 that the Department of Justice would bring on an additional 125 immigration judges, at least 44 of whom have been hired.Mr. Sessions also imposed policy changes the Justice Department called common-sense reforms to increase the efficiency of immigration courts.But immigration lawyers argued that prioritizing speed has come at the expense of due process.“This push toward efficiency over due process is particularly Trumpian,” Andrea Sáenz, the supervising attorney at Brooklyn Defender Services, said. The videoconferencing policy in New York is part of a larger trend of addressing the backlog by focusing “on what the government or ICE thinks is faster or cheaper, instead of giving people full and fair hearings,” Ms. Sáenz said.The plaintiffs in the federal suit include Brooklyn Defender Services, the Legal Aid Society and the Bronx Defenders, all of which offer free legal services to immigrants facing deportation as a part of the New York Immigrant Family Unity Project, a program funded by the New York City Council. Low-income people in immigration detention do not otherwise have a right to a lawyer if they cannot afford one.In previous years, judges frequently used their discretion to close some cases they deemed “low priority,” to take them off their dockets indefinitely and reduce the backlog.But Mr. Sessions restricted judges’ ability to do so, arguing in a decision in September that closing certain cases was “not a free-floating power an immigration judge may invoke” solely to create space on their docket. Advocates said this has added to the backlog.In June, the ICE field office in New York announced the policy in which detained immigrants would appear in court by videoconference instead of being brought to the court on Varick Street.At the time, ICE officials presented the policy as a security measure, after a group of demonstrators gathered outside the court to protest the administration’s “zero tolerance” immigration policy.The announcement also came three days after President Trump suggested that people who came into the United States illegally be sent back to their home countries without due process, the suit noted.“When somebody comes in, we must immediately, with no Judges or Court Cases, bring them back from where they came,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter.Even when the Varick Street protests ended, the New York policy remained in place. The use of videoconferencing “is more efficient, providing an economic savings to taxpayers, while continuing to ensure the safety of ICE employees, the court, the public and the detainees,” an ICE spokeswoman said in a statement in December.Videoconferencing is sometimes used in regions where judges are hours away from the jails, prisons and detention facilities where immigrants are held to help expedite procedural matters, such as scheduling hearings or accepting documents.A 2015 study by the U.C.L.A. law professor Ingrid Eagly found that deportation proceedings of detained immigrants heard by videoconference were adjudicated more quickly, in fewer days and with fewer trials, than those heard in person. But detained immigrants whose cases were heard through videoconferencing were also more likely to be deported.In New York, the introduction of videoconferencing for all proceedings meant that lawyers could no longer conduct on-site interviews to determine if a detained immigrant was eligible for free legal services, discuss how a client wanted to proceed in their case, or review strategies and clarify facts confidentially.Videoconferencing “does not always paint a complete picture” of a detained immigrant, said Judge Amiena Khan, speaking as the executive vice president of the National Association of Immigration Judges, the judges’ union. “Sometimes it’s more difficult to interact, to judge eye contact and nonverbal cues like body language,” all of which are critical to making determinations about an immigrant’s claims, Ms. Khan said.The suit, which is seeking class-action status, claimed that it was also more difficult for detainees to follow proceedings by video, especially when there were technology failures or when people required translators, who could not do simultaneous interpretation unless the immigrant appeared in person.Additionally, the suit contended that a shortage of videoconferencing lines and the failure of the technology had resulted in immigration judges routinely delaying scheduled proceedings or adjourning them altogether when lines were not available, prolonging immigrants’ detention.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLetter 94By Damien CaveThe Australia Letter is a weekly newsletter from our Australia bureau chief. Sign up to get it by email.___Parliament approved a bill this week to allow medical evacuation for asylum seekers on Nauru and Manus over the opposition of Prime Minister Scott Morrison, throwing Australia into another visceral debate over immigration.In the coming months, with an election approaching, we can expect to hear all kinds of intense and moralistic rhetoric.Mr. Morrison and his supporters are already arguing that opening the door even a little to settlement in Australia will encourage a flood of migrants and deaths at sea. Labor, the Greens and others on the left are maintaining that immigration is a net positive for Australia and that cruelty must be restrained.This is all part of a broader conversation across the West about migration and national identity; the White House announced just today that President Trump will declare a state of emergency to build a border wall.And it’s a conversation that matters. These disputes, however they end up, will shape many countries, and the world, for decades.But for me, there’s a certain familiarity to the discussion, not just in Washington but also in Canberra.I’ve written about immigration for nearly 20 years, from various countries, from the neighborhoods and towns where immigrants cluster to the halls of power where decisions are made.Along the way, there are a few things I’ve learned to look out for.The Hero Vs. Villain TrapIn heated moments like this one, immigrants and the nuances of their lives and motivations tend to be reduced to the most simplistic of archetypes.Either they are criminals (the worst of the worst, rapists, murders, pedophiles) or they are blameless hard-working heroes (say, doctors or professional basketball players from Australia in the N.B.A.).The reality — and this should be obvious, but often gets overlooked — is that most migrants are in the messy middle with the rest of us. They’re good and bad, they’re parents and workers, and they’re mostly just trying to make life a little bit better for themselves and their loved ones.This idea that they are somehow different and more extreme reflects little more than the political need for narrative and division. Beware of the packaging of simplicity.“It’s a Fact-Free Zone”When I was reporting a series of stories back in 2012 — the first to show that the era of mass Mexican migration was over — an expert I talked to warned that policymakers would ignore my findings.Immigration, he said, is an issue driven by emotion. “It’s a fact-free zone,” he said. And he was right.No matter how many cold hard facts get put into the public domain in the next few months — and I hope there are a lot of them — don’t expect the politicians to adjust their arguments. They’re appealing less to the head than the heart.And look out for what’s missing too.You probably won’t hear anyone, for example, pointing out that the decision to migrate is typically a long-term bet, calculated and paid for over several years, which rarely responds to immediate policy changes in predictable ways.There are both push (from a country) and pull (to a country) factors and, according to sociologists and demographers, it is often impossible to make sweeping cause-and-effect conclusions based on one element alone.Every immigrant has a story all their own. People move and flee for reasons that often have very little to do with what policymakers do to deter or assist them.Interaction WinsDuring a long road trip from the Mexican to the Canadian border, for a project exploring immigration in Middle America, I met dozens of Americans with all kinds of views about immigration.But there are two people, both older white women, who I still think about.One was in Farmers Branch, Texas, an area that had tried, but failed, to push out immigrants who might not be documented with a series of strict residential rental rules and policing. She told me through her locked screen door that she wanted tougher enforcement; she was afraid.Another was in Wichita, in Kansas, in an area that had gone from a declining white, working-class community to one that was reviving but more mixed in terms of ethnicity and origin.The woman’s name was Francene Sharp. You can read her full story here, but what stuck with me was her reaction to a break in at her home by some local Mexican teenagers.She had cause to be angry. But because she’d spent years getting to know many of her other immigrant neighbors — including a friend who she called for help right after the break in — her response and her views were tempered and calm.What she had (that the woman in Texas did not) was real-life interaction, enough of it to prevent her from making sweeping judgments about people or policy.She relied on her own deep experience and a remarkable openness to combat the “fact-free zone” and the “hero/villain trap.”Border policy was on her radar; she was no supporter of “open borders.” But she was far more interested in why those teenagers who broke in were not at home studying. Integration and community mattered more to her than border walls.Which brings me to what I’ll be looking for in this year’s Australian (and American) immigration debate.Will there be people pushing the conversation beyond border enforcement and detention?Who, if anyone, will be asking: How can immigration be studied, discussed and shaped in conjunction with immigrants to ensure that Australia (the country that often calls itself “the world’s most successful multicultural nation”) lives up to that promise?Now for a few stories of the week (plus a few surprising recommendations from Paul Krugman).As always, you can share your thoughts in our NYT Australia Facebook group. And if you’re enjoying this newsletter, don’t forget to share it and tell your friends to sign up too.___A few years ago, that lake you see above (it’s in the Swiss Alps) didn’t exist — it was just ice. Now, with glaciers melting all over Europe due to climate change, the dynamics of the land, and tourism, are changing.But not everyone in Switzerland is upbeat about it; don’t miss our magazine profile of the tiny Swiss company that thinks it can help stop climate changeAnd while you’re at it, read our Op-Ed on climate change and the frightening new normal in Australia.___Several women say Ryan Adams — who had a reputation in the music business for drunken misbehavior back when I covered music years ago — offered to jump start their music careers, then pursued them sexually and in some cases retaliated when they spurned him.He denies the claims. But The Times talked to several women with similar accounts, and the reports are already stirring a conversation about the consequences of a “sex, drugs and rock ‘n’ roll culture” that has defined rock music for decades.___If you’re not already a regular listener to The New York Times’s award-winning podcast, The Daily, go back and listen to this episode, which captures a conversation between our publisher, A.G. Sulzberger, and President Trump.It will help you understand how The Times thinks, less in terms of politics than in terms of journalism and journalists around the world.___Lots of good stuff this week, tilting toward enterprise reporting and analysis:• The Strange Experience of Being Australia’s First Tech Billionaires: In a country where wealth usually comes from mining or banking, Scott Farquhar and Mike Cannon-Brookes of Atlassian are a new kind of mogul. And they’re getting into politics.• In Tour of Australia, Chinese Admire Clean Air but Bemoan Lack of Hot Drinking Water: We spent four days with a group of Chinese tourists visiting Australia. The visitors and locals approached each other with confusion, skepticism and sometimes racism.• New Zealand Fears Fraying Ties With China, Its Biggest Customer: The cancellation of a tourism initiative and the abrupt return of an Air New Zealand flight has many suspecting Chinese retaliation for a ban on Huawei.• Australia to Allow Medical Evacuation for Nauru and Manus Island Detainees: Prime Minister Scott Morrison had opposed the bill, which will let some asylum seekers held on Pacific islands be treated medically in Australia.• Aboriginal Hunters’ Fires Help Restore an Australian Desert: A study of how the Martu shaped their land presents an example where humans seem to benefit an environment perceived as wilderness.Food and Drink• In Sydney, Sri Lankan Cuisine Gets a Thrilling Update: Lankan Filling Station serves exciting sambols alongside cocktails and natural wine in a crowded room that thrums with energy.• In Tasmania, a Gin Boom Showcasing Native Plants (and Even Sheep Whey): Gin from the south Australian island state is on the rise. In trendy bars throughout Australia, entire pages on menus are devoted to Tasmanian gins.Opinion• Letter From an Australian Jail: An Iranian Kurdish writer, detained for six years on a remote island for seeking asylum in Australia, proves that words are more powerful than fences.• The Alarming Allure of Australia’s Brumbies: The environment is being sacrificed for a national myth.... And in case you missed the link above:• Opinion: Australia’s Burning, Flooding, Disastrous New Normal: We are a land of proudly resilient people. But in an age of climate change, we can’t just hike up our Stubbies and move on.___...And We RecommendEarlier this week in Melbourne, I hosted a discussion with Paul Krugman, the veteran New York Times columnist and Nobel-prize-winning economist.We talked about trade and politics, of course, but at dinner the night before, Paul also told me that late in life, he’d become an indie rock fanatic.So here are a few recommendations from Paul, not for how to prevent recession, but rather for what to listen to when you’re worried about the world.• Wolf Alice• Warpaint• The Lone BellowDamien Cave is the Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. He’s covered more than a dozen countries for The Times, including Mexico, Cuba, Iraq and Lebanon. Follow him on Twitter: @damiencave.AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byBy Caitlin DickersonAfter prompting the longest government shutdown in history, President Trump’s divisive proposal for a border wall has taken a back seat in recent days for negotiators in Congress who are seeking to avoid another crippling closure. The latest talks have focused on another immigration issue that has exploded in recent months: Record numbers of migrants being held in cramped detention centers.Under orders to end the process that the president calls “catch and release,” the authorities have arrested and jailed tens of thousands of migrants since Mr. Trump took office, and Republicans would like it to stay that way.Democrats argue that ordinary immigrants around the country are being unnecessarily plucked from their families and jailed, and newly arrived migrants are being forced to wait unreasonable lengths of time in harsh detention centers.At issue is how much money the budget should provide for detention. Without more money, the authorities will have to scale back on arrests.“We’ll be releasing gang members. We’ll be releasing individuals convicted of domestic violence and drug crimes,” said Matthew Albence, deputy director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. “We will not be able to respond to as many calls as we do today. And in fact, in many of these calls, we’re going to tell them, ‘Just release them,’ because we have no choice.”Democrats point out that more than a quarter of current ICE detainees are not subject to mandatory detention under the law.Both Republicans and Democrats are citing competing data to claim that the new budget proposal advances their goals. Here’s what the plan really says:Months of brinkmanship between Congress and the White House over the border wall have distracted from the issue of detention, which has now reached a breaking point, with the authorities being urged by the White House to arrest more immigrants than they can currently afford to detain.With little support for a robust border wall on either side of the aisle within Congress, Republicans and Democrats have moved on to detention, which is also expensive, and has implications for recent border crossers as well as immigrants with firmly established roots in the United States.Mr. Trump’s strict enforcement agenda has pushed the population of detained immigrants to the highest levels in history, with the authorities sweeping into immigrant-heavy locales to arrest vast numbers of the undocumented, as well as immigrants who have violated the terms of their visas (usually through criminal convictions), making them deportable.Under sweeping policy changes introduced by Mr. Trump, ICE has gone after immigrants who were once not targeted, repopularizing workplace raids, arresting community leaders, and using previously frowned upon tactics to ferret out anyone who can be expelled from the country. As a result, the average daily population in immigration detention for the 2019 fiscal year has reached 45,890. ICE currently has funding to house only 40,520 people.Republicans are saying that they secured money for 5,000 additional immigration detention beds, while Democrats are saying that they managed to bring down detention numbers by 17.4 percent. Technically, both are true. Here’s why:Both parties agreed in the proposal to fund an average daily population for 2019 of 45,724 ICE detainees, or about 5,000 more than the 2018 budget provided — allowing Republicans to claim their success.But in order to reach that average by Sept. 30, the last day of the fiscal year, ICE will gradually have to decrease its detained population to 40,520, which represents about a 17 percent decrease from the 49,057 who are currently detained.Republican aides suggested in internal communications that the number of detained immigrants could reach 58,500 under the proposal through a process called reprogramming, which allows agencies to adjust their budgets to address unforeseen emergencies.Under reprogramming, federal agencies can take money that has been appropriated by Congress for specific matters, and use it to fund other things. And though it is meant to be used sparingly, the Department of Homeland Security has often used reprogramming to fund extra detention beds.Though it is a common tactic, Democrats argue that the amount of money that would need to be reprogrammed in order to reach 58,500 detention beds, $750 million, would be unprecedented.And they argue that the congressional committees that are now controlled by Democrats would never approve such a large amount.The Department of Homeland Security has historically deferred to such committees for approval before reprogramming funds, though it is not technically required.The deal provides funds for $1.375 billion in physical barriers along the border, far less than the $5.7 billion that Mr. Trump requested for his border wall. The money could be put toward 55 miles of new fencing, using only “currently deployed designs.”The proposal also provides funding to revamp holding facilities that are used by Customs and Border Protection, which came under renewed scrutiny after the deaths of two young migrant children around Christmas.And it would refund Obama-era programs that were eliminated under Mr. Trump, which had provided alternatives to detention for certain immigrants. Those who had been enrolled in the programs were allowed to roam freely, using GPS ankle bracelets and other incentives devised to make sure they showed up for court.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackLawyers for the Britain-born rapper 21 Savage say he will be released on bond on Wednesday after spending more than a week in the custody of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which said it had arrested him for being in the United States illegally.Kuck Baxter Immigration, the law firm representing the rapper, whose legal name is She’yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph, posted news of his pending release on its Facebook page on Tuesday afternoon.“In the last 24 hours, in the wake of the Grammy Awards at which he was scheduled to attend and perform, we received notice that She’yaa was granted an expedited hearing,” the post said. “Today, 21 Savage was granted a release on bond. He won his freedom.”Mr. Abraham-Joseph, 26, was arrested in the early hours of Feb. 3 during an operation by federal and local law enforcement authorities in Atlanta, Immigration and Customs Enforcement said at the time.The agency said in a statement at the time that he was a British national who had entered the United States on a nonimmigrant visa in 2005 and was supposed to leave the following year.The agency also said that Mr. Abraham-Joseph was convicted of felony drug charges in Fulton County, Ga., in 2014. One of Mr. Abraham-Joseph’s lawyers, Charles Kuck, said that conviction was vacated and the charges were dismissed by prosecutors in 2018.A member of the rapper’s legal team, Dina LaPolt, said in a statement after his arrest that he had been “left without legal status through no fault of his own” because “as a minor, his family overstayed their work visas.” Mr. Kuck said his client was 12 when his immigration status expired.Mr. Abraham-Joseph was nominated for a Grammy Award for record of the year for “Rockstar,” a song with the rapper Post Malone, but did not win at the awards ceremony on Sunday. Known for his flat delivery and subdued rap style, his album “I Am > I Was” opened at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 in January.Charles Kuck, another member of Mr. Abraham-Joseph’s legal team, said Tuesday that the rapper had been granted release but would have to spend one more night in custody.“We actually can’t get him out today because ICE stops taking money at 2 o’clock and the judge’s decision came down at around 2:15,” Mr. Kuck said. “He’ll be released in the morning.”Mr. Kuck declined to say what bail had been set at or where his client was being detained, but he said Mr. Abraham-Joseph had been treated well.“The facility where he has been held has been extraordinarily gracious to him, his legal team and his family,” Mr. Kuck said. “They have treated him well and we are grateful for their hospitality, as best as that can be in a jail cell.”A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement did not respond to a request for comment on Tuesday.Mr. Abraham-Joseph’s next date in immigration court is set for April 11, Mr. Kuck said.The Facebook post from Mr. Abraham-Joseph’s lawyers on Tuesday said that he wanted to draw attention to immigration detainees who are not as well known as he is.“He will not forget this ordeal or any of the other fathers, sons, family members, and faceless people he was locked up with or that remain unjustly incarcerated across the country,” the post said. “And he asks for your hearts and minds to be with them.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byVoters want more open borders, not a ‘smart wall.’ Democrats should listen.By Daniel DenvirMr. Denvir is the author of the forthcoming “All-American Nativism.”The last government shutdown ended because Democrats stood firm against President Trump’s border wall. But funding will soon run out again, talks between Democrats and Republicans are in crisis, and Mr. Trump remains committed: “The Wall will get built one way or the other!” he tweeted on Saturday.The Senate’s minority leader, Chuck Schumer, has made it clear that Mr. Trump won’t get his way: “Democrats are against the wall.” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has admirably enforced party discipline, has called the wall “immoral.”Yet at the same time, Ms. Pelosi has emphasized that “Democrats are committed to border security.” She has critiqued the wall on the narrow grounds that government should instead employ “evidence-based knowledge about how we best secure our border.” James Clyburn, the majority whip, fleshed out what that might look like: a “smart wall,” including more Border Patrol agents. This, too, is immoral.It’s also bad politics. Democrats should follow their voters, who increasingly want more open borders, and reframe the immigration debate by rejecting the very notion that the border needs more “security” and making it clear that the real problem is the denial of migrants’ rights. The time has come for the Democratic Party to push for concrete policies to make the border more open.There is plainly no need for more security on the border. Illegal entries to the United States (as measured by Border Patrol apprehensions, which the government has long used as a proxy) began to fall at the turn of the century, and have plummeted since 2006. They remain at historic lows today. Those who are coming to the country are often Central Americans fleeing violence that United States policy in the region helped foment.And when it comes to drugs — a favorite justification of Mr. Trump’s for his wall — evidence shows that more “border security” does not stop trafficking. From the 1970s on, every crackdown on a drug-smuggling route, whether it was heroin via the French Connection or cocaine through the Caribbean, has only led to new innovations in the trade that have empowered murderous Mexican cartels. Some scholars even argue that the rise of fentanyl can be traced to drug interdiction.Then why, if there isn’t truly a crisis on the border, do the Democrats continue to invoke the need for more “border security”? Largely because the conversation about the border and immigration has moved so far to the right over the past 30 years. As the linguist George Lakoff and Sam Ferguson, his student at the time, wrote more than a decade ago, the narrow framing of the “immigration” debate “has shaped its politics, defining what count as ‘problems’” and, as a result, “constrains the solutions needed to address that problem.” When the “problem” is defined as “illegal immigration,” it becomes about “the illegal act of crossing the border without papers,” and so “the logical response to the ‘wave’ of ‘illegal immigration’ becomes ‘border security.’”Since Bill Clinton’s presidency, the Border Patrol has grown from 4,100 agents in fiscal year 1992 to more than 19,000 today. The United States has built hundreds of miles of border fencing since the 2006 Secure Fence Act, which Barack Obama, Joe Biden and Hillary Clinton voted for. “Well, I voted for border security, and some of it was a fence,” Mrs. Clinton feebly said in 2016 when pressed about the 2006 vote that within a decade had become controversial.Democrats have for far too long let their political opponents define the terms of debate. Now they’re doing it again: House Democrats’ proposal heading into the negotiations with Republicans didn’t include funding for new physical barriers or additional Border Patrol agents, but it did offer significantly increased funding for “border security technology.”That’s not only bad for immigrants who, as a result of militarized borders are more likely to be kidnapped, violently assaulted and driven to cross via the lethal desert. It’s also bad for Democrats, who are handing ammunition to the nativist right at a time when Republicans are on the back foot and polls show that Democratic voters are moving decidedly leftward on immigration and the border.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]Voters used to overwhelmingly favor less immigration, but opinions have changed fast amid an immigrant rights movement that took off in 2006 and partisan polarization driven by aggressive enforcement. In 1994, just 32 percent of Democrats and Democratic-leaning Americans and 30 percent of Republicans agreed that immigrants strengthened the country, according to the Pew Research Center. But by 2016, the share of Democrats who said so had skyrocketed to 78 percent. In 2006, 37 percent of Democrats said that immigration levels should be decreased, while only 20 percent said that it should be increased. In 2018, 40 percent said that it should be increased, with just 16 percent calling for restriction. The same trend has held on border politics: In 2010, 47 percent of Democrats said that they equally prioritized legalizing undocumented immigrants and “better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws,” while just 29 percent prioritized legalization alone. By 2018, the number prioritizing legalization alone skyrocketed to 51 percent.Under President Trump, polarization has accelerated — and that’s a good thing. The vanishing bipartisan consensus orchestrated mammoth deportations and militarized the border in the quixotic hope of placating the nativist right and winning it over to supporting immigration reform. This strategy only inflamed the right’s paranoiac ravings and helped move the goal posts to new extremes. Which is why we find ourselves, in 2019, with the possibility of beginning a second government shutdown over the wall.So, what should the Democrats pursue instead? A break with a failed bipartisan consensus.Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley and Rashida Tlaib, all Democrats who are new to the House, have drafted a letter urging opposition to any deal that increases Department of Homeland Security funding in any form. That’s a good start.The border must be demilitarized, which would include demolishing the already-existing wall and dramatically downsizing the Border Patrol. Criminal sanctions on illegal entry and re-entry must be repealed. Opportunities for legal immigration, particularly from Mexico and Central America, must be expanded. The right to asylum must be honored. And citizenship for those who reside here must be a stand-alone cause, unencumbered by compromises that are not only distasteful but also politically ineffectual — and that today would provoke opposition from the nativist right and the grass-roots left. If Democrats stick to the center on immigration, they will find themselves fighting on two fronts. A fight against Republicans, with the left at their back, will be far easier to win — and a more noble victory.Simple realism dictates that no legislation to grant citizenship to the millions of undocumented Americans who deserve it will be passed until the Republicans are defeated. There’s no use trying to appease them. The bipartisan consensus supporting harsh immigration and border enforcement has fractured. Democratic elected officials need to catch up.Daniel Denvir (@danieldenvir) is a visiting fellow at the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs at Brown University and the author of the forthcoming “All-American Nativism.” He also hosts “The Dig,” a podcast from Jacobin magazine.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del RealLOS ANGELES — Gov. Gavin Newsom of California announced Monday that he would withdraw nearly 400 of his state’s National Guard troops from deployment along the border with Mexico and assign them to other duties.The step to rescind state authorization for the border deployment is a sharp rebuke of President Trump’s continued warnings that undocumented migrants present a national security risk to the United States. It follows a similar move last week by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico.Under a “general order” that Mr. Newsom plans to sign, 110 California National Guard troops will be redirected to support the state’s central fire agency, Cal Fire, and another 100 will work on statewide “intelligence operations” aimed at international criminal drug gangs.Mr. Newsom is also seeking to expand the state’s Counterdrug Task Force with 150 National Guard troops, which would require funding from the Department of Defense.[This month, we’re launching a limited-run weekly newsletter about life on the border, far from the tug-of-war of Washington politics. Sign up here to receive the first issue of Crossing the Border when it launches.]Since his election in November, Mr. Newsom has emphasized a progressive vision for California and the country, pitching his state as a leader on issues like immigration, climate change and income inequality. He promised last month to “offer an alternative to the corruption and incompetence in the White House.”Mr. Newsom is expected to speak publicly about the redeployment during his State of the State address on Tuesday, with sharp criticism of the president’s immigration policies and rhetoric.The National Guard has had an expanded presence in California since April, when Mr. Newsom’s predecessor, Jerry Brown, agreed to add 400 troops to shore up border-related security at the request of the Trump administration.At the time, Mr. Brown stressed that the deployment, which was financed by the federal government, would support efforts to go after criminal gangs, human traffickers and drug smugglers. He said the troops would not be used to enforce federal immigration policies.“This will not be a mission to build a new wall,” Mr. Brown wrote in a letter to Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, and Jim Mattis, who was secretary of defense at the time.“It will not be a mission to round up women and children or detain people escaping violence and seeking a better life,” Mr. Brown wrote, adding, “There is no massive wave of migrants pouring into California. Overall immigrant apprehensions on the border last year were as low as they’ve been in nearly 50 years.”Mr. Newsom and Mr. Brown are both Democrats. So is Governor Grisham of New Mexico, though the predecessor whose deployment decision she reversed was a Republican.Before the April deployment, there were about 250 National Guard troops serving in California, and 55 of them were stationed at the border. Under federal law, the troops are paid by the federal government but are under the control of the governor. It was not clear whether federal financing for the troops would continue after Mr. Newsom’s redirection order.Mr. Brown’s letter authorizing the deployment was largely seen at the time as a denunciation of President Trump’s immigration policies, but many activists and elected officials in the state sharply criticized Mr. Brown for agreeing to any guard deployment at all.Last summer, Kevin De León, who was then the State Senate leader, urged Mr. Brown to “not be complicit” in the administration’s hard-line immigration priorities, which he called “driven by racial animus.” Mr. De Leon, a Democrat, drafted the state law limiting coordination between local authorities and immigration enforcement agents, known colloquially as the “sanctuary state” law, which Mr. Brown signed in 2017.Despite the criticism, Mr. Brown later extended state authorization for the National Guard presence at the border through March 2019.Mr. Trump initially thanked Mr. Brown for the deployment, which was part of a national deployment of up to 4,000 troops authorized by Mr. Mattis. But to the confusion of many Californians, Mr. Trump later blasted the governor for placing limits on what the troops could do.“Looks like Jerry Brown and California are not looking for safety and security along their very porous Border,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “He cannot come to terms for the National Guard to patrol and protect the Border. The high crime rate will only get higher.”Illegal border crossings have been sharply declining for years. Apprehensions of undocumented migrants by border patrol agents are near historic lows. And undetected crossings have fallen to 62,000 in 2016 from 851,000 in 2006, according to the Department of Homeland Security. Several studies indicate that crime rates are lower among immigrants than among native-born Americans.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNot recognizing the intersection of both parts of his identity prevents us from fully understanding what’s at stake with his arrest by ICE.By Samuel GetachewMr. Getachew is an Ethiopian-American high school student and poet, and a delegate to the International Congress of Youth Voices.On Sunday, United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested the rapper 21 Savage, stunning his fans by declaring that he is a British citizen and has overstayed his visa. The arrest comes just months after the 26-year-old musician’s latest album, “I Am > I Was,” debuted at the top of the Billboard 200 and just days after he sang on national television against President Trump’s policy on family separation. The rapper, who is also up for two Grammys this Sunday, now faces imminent deportation. Within minutes of the announcement of his detention, the internet was flooded with memes making light of the news, and fans who thought he was born in Atlanta seemed to believe that he had betrayed them.Their reactions have demonstrated what I have come to see, in my own experiences as a black son of immigrants, as an ingrained American inability to think about both blackness and immigration simultaneously and through a complex lens. According to ICE, 21 Savage, born She’yaa Bin Abraham-Joseph, entered the country legally with his parents in 2005 when he was about 12 years old but remained after his visa expired a year later; his lawyers have said that he came to the United States much earlier, when he was 7. Rather than being appalled at the arrest, many responded with wisecracks. As the Washington Post pop music critic Chris Richards reported, “seemingly stunned by the strangeness of the breaking news,” some of the “citizens of rap-Twitter,” as he called them, “reflexively launched into joke torrents, superimposing 21’s face onto images of Buckingham Palace guards and translating his lyrics into Cockney slang.” While some prominent musicians have come to his defense, many of the memes about 21 Savage imply that despite his having lived in Georgia since he was a young boy, his British origin somehow disqualifies him from claiming it as his home. They imply that he is somehow a lesser rapper — that his claim to hip-hop and black American culture is now illegitimate. “21 not a blood; he’s a redcoat,” a person commented on Twitter. At first glance, these reactions could be viewed simply as harmless jokes. And maybe some just had a hard time conceiving that a rapper could be British. But their dismissiveness hit close to home with me, bringing up my own experiences in which similar attitudes have been all too prevalent. I remember the first time someone told me that I am not black. I was in middle school. A boy who had just found out that my parents were from Ethiopia turned to me and said, “Wait, I thought you were black?” I stared blankly, giving no response. “Nah, bro, you’re African.” I neither accepted nor denied this. A couple of months later, I was asked the same question. This time I replied, “What’s the difference?” Silence. A shrug. I was left not knowing who or what I was, feeling as though I was trying to fulfill a position I was unqualified for.I faced this false distinction at home as well. The first time I heard the world “black” used like it meant something dirty, I was around 9 or 10 years old. This experience is common for children of the African diaspora. It was probably a holiday or someone’s birthday, and my family was gathered together. The men sat in the living room, their laughs bellowing through the walls, talking about politics (Ethiopian and American), each louder than the other. Suddenly, the conversation shifted to race. Someone announced to a chorus of groans: “I am not black. I am African. I am Ethiopian. I know where I come from.” And then my mother’s swift rebuttal: “Here, our sons are black. Whether you like it or not, this country doesn’t care.” Yet again, I was left not knowing what to call myself or who I was. Years later, I remember this conversation when I am being followed in a store. Being Ethiopian does not exempt or shield me from American racism.It seems that a narrow view of the word “black” in an American context is preventing blackness from being allowed to coexist with other identities and racism from being allowed to coexist in conversations with other issues — especially immigration. In the case of 21 Savage, the mocking comments also show a lack of full recognition for how often ICE’s policies target black immigrants and how hurtful they can be. An ICE spokesman has reportedly said that 21 Savage’s “whole public persona is false.” Through such claims, ICE has tried to diminish 21 Savage’s career because of his immigration status and by implying that his experiences as a black man in America, chronicled by much of his music, are invalidated because of his birthplace. 21 Savage has overstayed his visa, but, as his lawyers have pointed out, this was “through no fault of his own.” One of his lawyers has said that ICE has known about his client’s immigration status and his whereabouts since he applied for the visa that would make him legal here, at least a couple of years ago. He also noted that his client “is clearly not a danger to the community, and in fact, his contributions to local communities and schools that he grew up in are examples of the type of immigrant we want in America.” Some have questioned the timing of ICE’s move, given that the rapper had been convicted of felony drug charges in 2014 (the conviction was reportedly later expunged). In the legal saga surrounding 21 Savage, I found unexpected validation. Here is a public figure who is very much black, and also an immigrant — an image that we don’t see enough and that I could have used when I was younger and grappling with my identity. It’s clear to me that 21 Savage is an immigrant and a black man, and neither invalidates the other. The foreign heritage of black immigrants like 21 Savage as well as first-generation children of African immigrants such as myself doesn’t counteract their blackness, and vice versa. It is not our responsibility to choose one identity. The inability to recognize both simultaneously has kept some from viewing his case as critically as they should. We as a society should not view race and immigration status as mutually exclusive.  Although it took the arrest of a prominent black man by one of the most feared government agencies in our nation to get us here, we are now finally starting to have a conversation about the intersection of blackness and immigration.Samuel Getachew is an Ethiopian-American high school student and poet, and a delegate to the International Congress of Youth Voices.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEncouraging and exploiting division has worked for Trump, as far as his own electoral prospects are concerned. Can he keep it up?By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.However often President Trump strays from his favored political strategy, he faithfully returns to it like a dog to a bone: first, polarize the American electorate along racial, cultural and economic lines, then exploit the schisms that have supplanted the class divisions that were once central to both American and European partisan politics.On one side of the divide are those whom the political scientists Pippa Norris and Ronald Inglehart describe in a 2016 paper as comfortable with “an inexorable cultural escalator moving postindustrial societies steadily in a more progressive direction.” This new direction amounts to what the authors callan intergenerational shift toward post-materialist values, such as cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism, generating rising support for left-libertarian parties such as the Greens and other progressive movements advocating environmental protection, human rights, and gender equality.On the other side, Norris and Inglehart write, is a counterrevolution, aretro backlash, especially among the older generation, white men, and less educated sectors, who sense decline and actively reject the rising tide of progressive values, resent the displacement of familiar traditional norms, and provide a pool of supporters potentially vulnerable to populist appeals.Economic distress, they argue, reinforces cultural alienation to produce fertile terrain for Trump. “Fears of economic insecurity, including the individual experience of the loss of secure, well-paid blue-collar jobs, and the collective experience of living in declining communities of the left-behinds” combine to make votersmore susceptible to the anti-establishment appeals of authoritarian-populist actors, offering simple slogans blaming “Them” for stripping prosperity, job opportunities, and public services from “Us.” The collision of these forces has produced the emergence of an American authoritarianism. In their book, “Cultural Backlash: Trump, Brexit and Authoritarian Populism,” which comes out later this week, Norris and Inglehart write that Trump has assumed leadership of this authoritarian movement,defined as a cluster of values prioritizing collective security for the group at the expense of liberal autonomy for the individual. Authoritarian values prioritize three core components: 1) the importance of security against risks of instability and disorder (foreigners stealing our jobs, immigrants attacking our women, terrorists threatening our safety); 2) the value of group conformity to preserve conventional traditions and to guard our way of life (defending “Us” against threats to “European values”); and 3) the need for loyal obedience toward strong leaders who protect the group and its customs (“I alone can fix it," “Believe me,” “Are you on my team?").The United States and many European countries, at various points in the last decade, have reached a critical juncture, Norris and Inglehart write: “The interwar generation, non-college graduates, the working class, white Europeans, the more religious, men and residents of rural communities” have come to feel “estranged from the silent revolution in social and moral values, left behind by cultural tides that they deeply reject.” These men and women, “until recently the politically and socially dominant group in Western cultures,” reacheda tipping point at which their hegemonic status, power and privilege is fading. Their values make them potential supporters for parties and leaders promising to restore national sovereignty (Make America Great Again), restrict immigration and multicultural diversity (Build a Wall) and defend traditional religious and conventional moral values.The debate over whether the rise of right-wing populism is driven by cultural anxiety, racism, ethnocentricity or economic deprivation may “be somewhat artificial,” Norris and Inglehart contend becauseinteractive processes may possibly link these factors, if structural changes in the work force and social trends in globalized markets heighten economic insecurity, and if this, in turn, stimulates a negative backlash among traditionalists toward cultural shifts. It may not be an either/or question, but one of relative emphasis with interactive effects.In this country, the nominally class-based politics of the New Deal fractured when working class non-college whites felt abandoned by a Democratic Party that shed its pre-civil rights, segregationist southern wing and that by the 1970s had adopted a culturally and racially liberal agenda. Over the past five decades, these white voters have formed the core of the populist right. Conversely, minorities, many of whom face the same economic hardships as working class whites, if not worse, are firmly aligned with the party of social and cultural liberalism and racial equality, the Democratic Party.“The new cultural cleavage dividing Populists and Cosmopolitan Liberals,” Norris and Inglehart write, is “orthogonal to the classic economic class cleavage” — in other words, the new division cuts across and splits the old economic class solidarity.Data from a preliminary American National Election Studies survey — provided to me by Matthew DeBell, a scholar at Stanford’s Institute for Research in the Social Sciences — revealed the strength of this new cleavage. The survey asked 2,500 men and women to rank their feelings toward Trump on a “feeling thermometer” scale of zero, “very cold or unfavorable,” to 100, “very warm or favorable.”The results illustrate that the population is even more divided between those who love and those who hate Trump than we might think. Sixty-one percent had either extremely hostile or very positive feelings toward the president.Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory University, analyzed the responses to the survey. He wrote me that nearly two out of five of those surveyed, 38 percent, put Trump in the coldest range, 5 degrees or lower. 23 percent, put him in the warmest range, 95 degrees or higher. If the definition of extreme is expanded to encompass those who rank Trump from 0 to 10 and from 90 to 100, the total grows to 72 percent — 44 percent at 10 degrees or lower, 28 percent 90 degrees or higher.Abramowitz noted that “Trump is the most polarizing president in the history of ANES polling and Gallup polling.”Not only is Trump the most polarizing president, he has monopolized public attention and managed to make himself the object of both loathing and adoration.“The 2020 elections will certainly be all about Trump, assuming he is on the ballot and to a considerable extent even if he is not,” Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, wrote me in an email. “The 2018 election was all about Trump even though he was not on the ballot.”Stanley Feldman, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, elaborated on Trump’s self-generated centrality in an email:While Democrats and Republicans were already quite polarized before Trump ran for the presidency, I don’t think there is any question that he has contributed to further polarization. It is increasingly difficult to find people who don’t feel strongly about him.Trump, Feldman noted,taps into some fundamental issues in contemporary American politics — race/ethnicity, social issues, nationalism — and his rhetoric — clearly designed to appeal to his base — turns off many of those who are not with him on those issues. When you do little or nothing to broaden your support beyond your core voters you will generate extreme affective reactions.Feldman posed the question:Will this make the 2020 election largely about Trump? To a great extent yes, though the answer to that will depend in part on who the Democratic candidate is. As we saw in 2016, negative reactions to Hillary Clinton contributed to the outcome of that election.Feldman’s point about Clinton leads to the next question. As the Democratic selection of a nominee begins in earnest, one issue threatens the cohesion of the center-left coalition: whether the party should support expansive liberal initiatives like Medicare for All, a sharp hike in tax rates on the rich and a Green New Deal or whether it should stake out the center.Columnists who lean toward the center themselves have been particularly sharp in their criticism of the leftward movement of the party.“Democrats Are Boosting Trump’s Re-election Prospects,” read the headline of a National Journal article last week by Josh Kraushaar: Their top 2020 presidential hopefuls are embracing socialist-minded economic policy, from a Green New Deal to single-payer health insurance. It’s playing right into the president’s hands.Gerald Seib, a columnist at The Wall Street Journal, wrote earlier this week that “Democrats have arrived at a moment of great opportunity, but also of great peril.”Increasingly, he argued, the party has becomeidentified with policy proposals that are easy for Republicans to caricature as left-wing extremism. It is a fair bet that a majority of congressional Democrats don’t support either a 70 percent top tax rate or an across-the-board wealth tax on the richest Americans.In addition, Seib noted, “the party is beginning to experience the consequences of a zero-tolerance attitude on perceived misbehavior.”According to Seib, “Democrats face this question: Could they manage to scare off that center just as it has become so available?” The risk, Seib wrote,is that centrist voters will think they see that an angry left wing taking charge. Democrats could appear to be succumbing to the national mood of anger, when the better image might be of hope.In his State of the Union address on Feb. 5, Trump laid the groundwork for an assault on Democrats, declaring:Here, in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country. America was founded on liberty and independence — not government coercion, domination, and control. We are born free, and we will stay free. Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country.I asked Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at Tufts who is one of the directors of the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, whether Democratic primary voters are pushing presidential candidates to take stands on issues further to the left than the general electorate would accept.Contrary to the view of many political analysts, Schaffner countered with data suggesting that this is not the case.“I actually don’t think Democratic primary voters are substantially more liberal than Democrats more broadly,” he wrote, adding that many of the party’s new policy initiatives are, in fact, “favored by a majority of those who voted in 2016.”He cited the following results from the 2016 Cooperative Congressional Election Study survey.Who favored granting legal status to immigrants? Democratic primary voters: 79 percent support; Democrats in general: 77 percent support; all voters: 55 percent support.Who would require minimum amounts of renewable energy? Democratic primary voters: 85 percent support; Democrats in general: 80 percent support; all voters: 61 percent support.Ban assault rifles? Democratic primary voters: 91 percent support; Democrats in general: 84 percent support; all voters: 64 percent.Eliminate mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent offenders? Democratic primary voters: 84 percent support; Democrats in general: 78 percent support; all voters: 67 percent.How about raising the minimum wage to $12 per hour? Democratic primary voters: 92 percent support; Democrats in general: 90 percent support; all voters: 65 percent.Along similar lines, four political scientists, John Sides and Christopher Warshaw of George Washington University, and Lynn Vavreck and Chris Tausanovitch of UCLA, write in a March 2018 paper, “On the Representativeness of Primary Electorates” that “primary voters are frequently characterized as an ideologically extreme subset of their party, and thus partially responsible for increasing party polarization in government.” On the contrary, they find “that primary voters are similar to rank and file voters in their party” and thus “the composition of primary electorates does not exert a polarizing effect above what might arise from voters in the party as a whole.”Jacobson of UCSD strongly agreed, arguing that Democrats’ intense dislike of Trump will make them willing to forgive a candidate who fails to adopt all their favored policies if the candidate looks like a winner:Most Democrats will have as their prime goal — far more important than positions taken by the candidates — making sure Trump does not have a second term.The national election survey cited above reveals the depth of the electorate’s divisions on a range of issues in the Trump era.On what may prove to the crucial subject of debate over the next two — impeachment — the public is split.The survey found that a 42.1 plurality favors impeachment, including 24.9 percent who favor it strongly. A slightly smaller 38 percent oppose impeachment, including 30 percent who oppose it strongly. 19.9 percent did not take a stand.Americans are evenly divided in their assessment of Trump’s repeated denials that neither he nor his campaign ever coordinated with Russia to defeat Hillary Clinton. According to the survey, 49.9 percent agreed with the statement “Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign probably coordinated with the Russians,” while 50.1 percent said the campaign “probably did not coordinate.”One of Trump’s signature claims during the 2016 campaign was the promise that he would “drain the swamp” of corruption in the nation’s capital. That promise, according the public, is not holding up well.The survey asked “Has corruption in government increased, decreased, or stayed the same since Donald Trump became president?” The result? More than half, 54 percent, said corruption has increased under Trump, including 26.6 percent who said it has increased “a great deal.” 28 percent said the level of corruption remains unchanged, and 18.4 percent said corruption had decreased. 3.1 percent said corruption had decreased “a great deal.”Trump has railed against the Mueller investigation since it began, calling it an “illegal Joseph McCarthy style Witch Hunt.” Asked about the Mueller investigation, 45.1 of those surveyed said they approved, 16.6 points more than the 28.5 percent who said they disapproved, 19.7 percent “extremely strongly.” 28.4 percent had no opinion.Trump has pushed the authoritarian envelope further than any president (or major party presidential candidate) in recent memory.Let’s turn back to Gary Jacobson. “As long as Trump is on the scene, the nation is bound to remain deeply divided,” Jacobson writes in “Extreme Referendum: Donald Trump and the 2018 Midterm Elections,” which will appear in a forthcoming issue of Political Science Quarterly:To the extent that he reshapes the Republican Party in his white nationalist image, these divisions will deepen further and every election, like the 2018 midterms, will be fought with both sides convinced that nothing less than the future of American democracy is at stake.Norris and Inglehart suggest that the dependence of the populist right on older voters may lead to its steady decline as those voters die off, but they are not confident that this will happen. “It remains to be seen how resilient liberal democracy will be in Western societies, or whether it will be damaged irreparably by authoritarian populist forces” they write at the conclusion of their book. “The problem is not just Trump, nor is it just America. It reflects pervasive economic and cultural changes, for which there are no easy answers.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byletterGEO Group, a government contractor, takes issue with an Op-Ed article.To the Editor:Re “Forced to Work for Pennies an Hour” (Op-Ed, Jan. 30):We take issue with Victoria Law’s characterization of the services that GEO Group has provided to the government for more than three decades, under Democratic and Republican administrations.The Voluntary Work Program is a required program at all Immigration and Customs Enforcement facilities. The Obama administration codified it in Performance-Based National Detention Standards in 2011, stating that its purpose, among other goals, is to reduce idleness, improve morale and lower disciplinary incidents.GEO is contractually required to meet each of ICE’s standards. The program is strictly voluntary, and those participating in it are compensated by ICE according to the statutory reimbursement rate set by Congress.The program costs are a direct pass-through to the government, and therefore our company does not benefit financially from it. If Congress increased the reimbursement rate, any additional costs would be borne by the government. If the terms of the program are modified, we will faithfully follow them.Claims of coercion are untrue. Those in our care are provided three daily meals, free of charge, and free hygiene products on demand.We understand that America’s immigration debate is contentious, with strongly held beliefs. We do not take positions on immigration enforcement or detention policies.David VenturellaBoca Raton, Fla.The writer is senior vice president of GEO Group, a provider of correctional and detention management, community re-entry and rehabilitation services to government agencies.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOur policymakers have been at an impasse. Can you do better?Immigration has continued to be a fractious issue in American political life, as well as a major source of impasse in our government. We want to hear from readers on all sides of the discussion, especially those who feel they’ll be directly affected by America’s immigration policy. Are you an immigrant yourself, documented or otherwise? Do you live in a community that has experienced high levels of immigration over the past few decades? Have you considered moving to America? We’re looking to set up correspondence among readers for what we hope will be the first in a series of thoughtful conversations on a variety of issues facing the country. We welcome and encourage all voices and points of view, so long as they include an openness to respectfully discussing the issue with others.Your information will not be shared without your permission. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanLOS ANGELES — After working through the Las Vegas summer lugging boxes and heavy furniture to raise money to apply for United States citizenship, Jose Silva plunked down the $725 fee in the fall of 2017, just days after he turned 18. “I hoped to vote in the midterm elections,” he said.But it took until last week, more than a year and a half after he applied, for the college student to be scheduled for a citizenship interview, which he will have on March 20. If approved, Mr. Silva will take the oath later this year.The time that aspiring Americans must wait to be naturalized is now almost twice as long, 10 months, as it was two years ago. In Las Vegas, where the office has a particularly large backlog, applicants could wait 31 months.The delays come as the Trump administration tightens scrutiny of applications, diverts staff from reviewing them and introduces proposals likely to make it more difficult, and cumbersome, for green-card holders to qualify and complete the process.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up for it here.]Nearly nine million immigrants are eligible for citizenship. The steep application fee and the civics and English tests have historically deterred many from naturalizing. Instead, they renewed their legal residence every decade.But the administration’s move to tighten restrictions on immigration have awakened many longtime permanent residents to the fact that a green card does not shield them from deportation. It has also compelled many to seek citizenship in order to cast a ballot, with hundreds of thousands of immigrants poised to become potential voters ahead of the 2020 election.After supporting legislation that would cut overall immigration, President Trump recently championed the economic benefits of attracting foreign talent. In his State of the Union address, the president said he wanted “people to come into our country in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally.”Yet the lengthening backlog in applications is making it more difficult for immigrants to become civically engaged and to solidify ties to their adopted country, critics of the administration’s policies say. “Far from the public eye, the Trump administration is strangling the naturalization process,” said Steven Choi, a chair of the National Partnership for New Americans, a coalition of advocacy groups that is pushing to offer naturalization workshops and legal services to would-be citizens.Coalition members filed a federal lawsuit in Los Angeles in September against the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that reviews the applications, challenging the processing delays.The federal agency has blamed the delays on a sharp rise in applications.“U.S.C.I.S. continues to adjudicate the pending naturalization caseload, which skyrocketed under the Obama administration, more than doubling from 291,800 in September 2010 to nearly 700,000 by the beginning of 2017. Now, despite a record and unprecedented application surge workload, U.S.C.I.S. is completing more citizenship applications, more efficiently and effectively — outperforming itself,” Michael Bars, an agency spokesman, said in response to emailed questions.There have been bigger application spikes in the past, such as in 2007, when the caseload swelled to 1.4 million and the agency was able to work through the backlog by the following year. That has not happened with the current pileup.A total of 750,793 applications were pending at the end of June, the latest period available. But the rate at which they are being processed is at the lowest in a decade, according to an analysis released this month by Boundless Immigration, a technology company in Seattle that helps immigrants obtain green cards and citizenship. The agency was able to work through only about half its applications in 2017, compared to about 60 percent in 2016. (Data for 2018 is not available.)“Applications for citizenship have surged many times in the past and U.S.C.I.S. was able to bring enough resources to bear to tame them. Wait times have doubled and the agency is barely processing half of their backlog,” said Doug Rand, a founder of Boundless Immigration.[Would your marriage stand up to the scrutiny of the American government? Take the test.]A Feb. 12 letter to the director of Citizenship and Immigration Services that was signed by 86 members of Congress raised concerns about the “alarming growth in processing delays” for naturalization and other services like green cards and visas.It noted that the agency’s proposed budget for the 2019 fiscal year included a request that more than $200 million of its fee revenue be transferred to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that rounds up people for deportation.“This appears to represent part of U.S.C.I.S.’s larger shift toward prioritizing immigration enforcement over the service-oriented adjudications at the core of the agency’s mandate,” said the letter, which sought details about efforts to reduce and eliminate backlogs.Processing times vary across the country, depending on caseloads and staffing at regional offices. Applicants in Houston could wait almost two years; in Atlanta, the wait could be even longer. In contrast, those seeking citizenship in Louisville, Ky., have been completing the process in up to 10 months. In Buffalo, the wait is just over a year.Citizenship applications are receiving additional scrutiny — and that is likely to intensify. The Trump administration says that it is placing a premium on integrity. But immigration lawyers and other experts report that officers are digging up information going back years to raise questions that are delaying, and jeopardizing, citizenship for many applicants.“The Trump administration has infused the entire legal immigration system with skepticism, but naturalization should be different: These people are already here legally; they want to be citizens to better assimilate,” said Mr. Rand, who served in the Obama administration.The government has also been taking a harder look at some immigrants who have already become citizens. Last year, the agency launched a denaturalization task force with the aim of stripping citizenship from people found to have committed fraud to obtain it.Some applicants have shown up for their interview only to learn they could be deported.“This past year, for the first time we have started to see people who apply for naturalization not only have it denied but also be placed in removal proceedings to take away their permanent residence,” said Ted Farrell, an immigration lawyer in Louisville.Ahmed Bafagih, 31, a permanent resident since 2010, was denied citizenship after he told an officer during his interview last month in Houston that he was born in Kenya, not Yemen, as appeared in his file. He is appealing the decision.“Acting in good faith, I tried to correct the error that would have gone unnoticed,” said the lab technician, who moved to Sana from Mombasa, his birthplace, when he was about 30 days old.The denial, reviewed by The New York Times, stated that, “Your record reflects that there was fraud in procurement of your Legal Permanent Resident status,” referring to the erroneous birth certificate.Mr. Bafagih’s Yemen-born parents and three sisters are American citizens.His father, Jamal Bafagih, who won awards during 25 years of service with American government missions in the Middle East, including with the Pentagon and the Commerce Department, said: “I raised my kids to love this country. Suddenly when my son reports an error, it bounces back to hurt him; that leaves a very bad taste.”Slated for implementation are a series of regulatory changes that are likely to make the process even more onerous.One proposal would require many citizenship applicants to produce a decade of international travel history, rather than the current five; more documentation, like children’s birth certificates, which many refugees lack; as well as more information to ascertain “good moral character.”The agency has also proposed narrowing the eligibility criteria for a waiver of the full $725 filing fee, which would reduce the number of low-income immigrants who could afford to naturalize.Meanwhile, many agency officers who conduct citizenship interviews have been reassigned to the southern border to interview asylum seekers, whose cases the administration wishes to expedite, according to an agency official who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to speak to the media.For many of those waiting their turn, more is at stake than the simple pride of citizenship. Holding an American passport opens access to certain jobs, such as in law-enforcement agencies, and scholarships that are not available to noncitizens. Mr. Silva the applicant in Las Vegas, is studying Arabic, a language in high demand by government agencies, which often only hire citizens.He’s studying at a community college, but hopes to transfer to a four-year university next year — and that’s another issue.“My passion is languages,” said Mr. Silva, “and for scholarships I have found, you have to be a U.S. citizen.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Frances RoblesTwo millionaire fugitives from Ecuador, whose family poured hundreds of thousands of dollars into American political campaigns as they fought to stay in the United States, were arrested last week in Miami by immigration authorities, officials said.Roberto and William Isaías, 74 and 75, were taken on Wednesday to a detention facility where undocumented immigrants are held pending deportation, according to the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.It was not immediately clear what prompted the authorities to make the arrests, but ICE’s statement said the brothers were “unlawfully present” in the United States.The Isaías brothers, bankers vilified in Ecuador for increasing their wealth in the late 1990s just as their bank collapsed — wiping out tens of thousands of customers’ savings — were convicted of embezzlement by a court there in 2012. They were sentenced to prison terms in absentia, having arrived in South Florida almost a decade earlier.The brothers have vehemently denied accusations that they looted their bank, and said that the Ecuadorean government had politicized the case and unfairly seized their assets. They are still battling in the courts to recover their properties at home.Ecuador has estimated that the brothers cost the country $400 million, and has for years sought their extradition. At one point, even the American ambassador in Ecuador lobbied for their prompt return, accusing the men of financing a $2 million bribe to get Ecuador’s attorney general to drop the case.As their criminal case heated up in Ecuador, the cash started flowing  in the United States. The Isaías brothers’ relatives donated tens of thousands dollars to members of the United States Congress, and  $90,000 to help re-elect President Barack Obama.A year after the donation to the Obama campaign, the Department of Justice rejected Ecuador’s extradition request, saying it lacked sufficient proof.The Ecuadorean government later accused Washington of denying its request in exchange for checks. The Obama administration said the donations had nothing to do with its decisions.A renewed request for extradition is pending, said Alvin B. Davis, the Ecuadorean government’s lawyer in Miami. The Department of Justice referred questions to ICE.The Isaías brothers are now expected to appear for a deportation hearing in immigration court, said Nestor J. Yglesias, a spokesman for ICE.Mr. Davis said the government of Ecuador, having won a civil case in Florida against the brothers, is preparing to fight for some $1.3 billion in damages. The arrest left him “gratified,” he said.“They need to be held responsible after all these years,” Mr. Davis said.The Isaías’s lawyer in Ecuador, Jorge Zavala Egas, referred questions about the arrest to a South Florida publicist, Alfredo J. Balsera.Contacted by phone, Mr. Balsera said The New York Times had acted in “bad faith” in previous articles about the Isaías case and declined to comment.In a 2014 interview, Roberto Isaías denied asking for favors in exchange for political donations.“My family has given to about 20 congressmen who fight for human rights and freedom of speech in Latin America,” he said. “That’s legal.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshAiden and Ethan Dvash-Banks are twin brothers who were born minutes apart.But only one of them was considered to be a United States citizen by the State Department. A federal judge ruled this week that was a mistake.The twins are the sons of two married gay men, an American citizen and an Israeli citizen. Aiden was conceived using sperm from his American father and Ethan was conceived using sperm from his Israeli father, court records show. A surrogate mother gave birth to the boys in Canada in 2016.The family sued the State Department for denying Ethan citizenship, drawing attention to a department policy that says that a child born abroad must be biologically related to an American parent to become a citizen. Gay rights activists argued that the policy harms same-sex couples, who often use assisted reproductive technology to have children.“Two kids who have almost identical life experiences and parenting,” said Aaron C. Morris, a lawyer for the family and the executive director of Immigration Equality, a legal advocacy group that worked on the case. “To treat them differently is absurd.”In a ruling on Thursday, Judge John F. Walter of Federal District Court for the Central District of California said that Ethan should be recognized as a citizen since birth. The judge ruled that federal law does not require a child born to married parents to prove a biological relationship with both parents.The State Department said in a statement on Friday that it was reviewing the ruling, but did not respond to questions about what it would mean for the policy going forward.The twins, now 2 years old, were born to Andrew Dvash-Banks, an American citizen, and Elad Dvash-Banks, an Israeli citizen. The couple met in Israel and married in Canada in 2010 before having their sons with the help of assisted reproductive technology, according to their lawsuit.After the twins were born, their parents went to the United States Consulate in Toronto to certify the children’s American citizenship and get United States passports. But they were told that the twins had to take a DNA test to prove a genetic connection to Andrew, the lawsuit said.Ethan was denied citizenship because Andrew was not his biological father, according to a copy of a letter from the State Department included in the lawsuit.“If we were a straight couple and I was an Israeli woman and both of our names were on both kids’ birth certificates, would you ever require us to perform a DNA test?” Elad said in a video about the case posted by the immigration advocacy group.When the Dvash-Bankses decided to move to Los Angeles to be near Andrew’s family in 2017, same-sex marriage had been legalized and three of the four family members were eligible to live in the United States. But Ethan was allowed into the country only on a tourist visa, which expired that December, according to the lawsuit.The couple sued the State Department the next month, with the help of Immigration Equality, the legal advocacy group, which works on behalf of L.G.B.T. immigrants and their families.Mr. Morris, the group’s executive director, said that Ethan was living as an undocumented baby in California, which caused daily anxiety for the family and made it difficult for him to get to know his extended family in Israel.“It took a very long time before he got to meet his grandparents,” Mr. Morris said. “When they did their taxes, they didn’t have a Social Security number for Ethan. Enrolling him in day care was complicated. This was an everyday frustration.”In his ruling this week, Judge Walter called the State Department’s interpretation of the citizenship law “strained.”But the ruling stopped short of striking down the State Department’s policy over all and does not necessarily apply to other families, according to Mr. Morris. Immigration Equality is fighting a similar case in Washington on behalf of a same-sex couple living in London.Mr. Morris said he hoped the ruling would be “persuasive” to other courts and would perhaps compel the government to change its policy voluntarily.“It is one more in a series of cases telling the State Department that they are getting the policy wrong,” he said.For the Dvash-Bankses, at least, the ruling brought fast relief. Afterward, Elad and Andrew told their toddlers the news, as the boys chomped on bananas and smiled.“Not knowing whether Ethan would be allowed to stay in the U.S. is something we went to bed with every night,” Andrew said in a statement issued by the advocacy group.“Now,” he said, “our family is whole and safe.”Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervosh. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Mark LandlerOn a day when a fresh snowfall blanketed the White House, there was something apt about President Trump cozying up by a fireplace with a leader of a picturesque Alpine country.But Mr. Trump’s Oval Office meeting on Wednesday with the leader, Chancellor Sebastian Kurz of Austria, had less to do with sleigh rides and hot chocolate than with their shared appeal to nationalism and determination to crack down on immigration.Mr. Kurz vaulted to power in Austria in late 2017 with an anti-immigration message that challenged Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, after her country took in thousands of refugees who streamed across southern Europe from Syria and other war-torn Middle Eastern nations.At 32, Mr. Kurz is the youngest leader of a government in the world. He is serving in a coalition with Austria’s far-right Freedom Party — a turn of events that alarms liberals in Europe but has made him extremely attractive to Mr. Trump and his aides.He is a “rock star,” said Richard A. Grenell, the United States ambassador to Germany, who invited Mr. Kurz to lunch in Berlin. He is “one of the rising stars in the sovereignty movement,” said Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump’s former chief strategist, who has tried to build a front of populist leaders across Europe.On Wednesday, Mr. Trump granted Mr. Kurz a one-on-one meeting and an expanded session with his senior aides — the kind of attention that leaders of smaller countries almost never get, save for the prime minister of Ireland around St. Patrick’s Day.As Mr. Trump and Mr. Kurz sat in front of the fireplace, the president mostly marveled at Mr. Kurz’s age — the chancellor is five years younger than Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner.“He’s a very young leader, I have to tell you,” Mr. Trump said, turning to his guest. “You are a young guy; that’s pretty good.”Leaning forward in his chair, Mr. Kurz interjected, “But the problem with the age is getting better from day to day.”“Someday you won’t be saying that,” the president said, in what for him was a grandfatherly tone.Mr. Trump and Mr. Kurz later discussed trade tensions between the United States and Europe, as the White House nears a decision to impose tariffs on German automobiles. Austria is a producer of car parts, and Mr. Kurz has proposed himself as an intermediary between Mr. Trump and Ms. Merkel, whose relationship — never warm — has hardened.“The conversation was tough,” said Martin Engelberg, a senior aide to Mr. Kurz, who noted that Mr. Trump also pressed his guest on Austria’s reliance on natural gas from Russia. Mr. Engelberg said the two leaders did not discuss immigration, and he rejected the suggestion that cultivating Mr. Kurz was a way for Mr. Trump to divide the European Union. “The chancellor is absolutely a committed European,” he said.As the leader of a country with fewer than nine million people, however, Mr. Kurz can do little to head off a trans-Atlantic trade war. Mr. Trump’s decision to meet with him was mostly about what Mr. Kurz symbolizes in a Europe with which the president has had an increasingly antagonistic relationship.“For better or for worse, he is the chancellor of a German-speaking country that is in a coalition with the hard right,” said Constanze Stelzenmüller, an expert on Europe at the Brookings Institution. “They might see Kurz as a normalizer of the right.”Shortly after he arrived in Germany, Mr. Grenell enraged his hosts by telling Breitbart News that he wanted to encourage a new generation of conservative leaders in Europe — an obvious dig at Ms. Merkel. He singled out Mr. Kurz, a native of Vienna who rose up in the center-right People’s Party before seizing on the issue of Muslim immigration to carve out a sharper identity and appeal to nativist sentiments.“He was swept up in the wake of the migration crisis,” said Eugen Freund, a member of the European Parliament from Austria. “If there hadn’t been a migrant crisis, there wouldn’t have been a Sebastian Kurz.”Mr. Freund, a former broadcaster who is a Social Democrat, said there were important differences between Mr. Kurz and Mr. Trump, aside from their age. The president is freewheeling and blunt; the chancellor chooses his words carefully. The president vilifies the news media; the chancellor has cultivated journalists in Austria, earning positive coverage.“He is more like Bill Clinton than Trump,” Mr. Freund said.Mr. Kurz is not the first young European leader to beguile Mr. Trump. He befriended President Emmanuel Macron of France before their relationship soured on trade and climate change, among other issues. Nor is Mr. Kurz the only nationalist to get the president’s attention.Mr. Trump has cultivated other European populists, including Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary and Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte of Italy. And the United States recently held a summit meeting on the Middle East in Warsaw — a reward for Poland’s right-wing government, which has sought close ties to Mr. Trump.But experts said there was little evidence that these efforts have helped the United States achieve tangible policy goals, and they have only deepened the rift with allies like Germany and France.“That policy of embrace has failed utterly,” Ms. Stelzenmüller said. “The Warsaw summit showed in brutal clarity the internal contradictions of U.S. policy towards the right in Europe. It showed that this policy undercuts American interests and credibility.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHow Trump's incompetent power grabs are actually weakening the imperial presidency.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistIn Barack Obama’s second term, with his legislative agenda dead in a Republican-controlled Congress, the president turned to executive unilateralism on an innovative scale. On climate regulation and health care he used the presidential pen to pursue policies denied him by Congress, and on immigration he made a more dramatic leap — claiming a power he himself had previously abjured, and offering a provisional legal status to about half the illegal-immigrant population.At the time I called this “caesarism” — an attempt to arrogate to the imperial presidency the kind of power over domestic policy that it already claims over foreign and military affairs. And because the decay of republics is an iterative process, where each faction builds on the norm-breaking of its rivals, it was fairly obvious — well, to me, if not to his supporters — that Obama’s caesarism helped stoke the caudillo appeal of Donald Trump, who promised a cruder version of the same impatient executive ambition.Now, that caudillo spirit is taking legal form in Trump’s most serious power grab to date: the attempt to use a “national emergency” declaration — a power whose chronic abuse by presidents Congress has never bestirred itself to check — to build the border fencing that the Democratic Party and his own political impotence have denied him.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]On the merits, anyone who opposed Obama’s moves should oppose this one as well. The scale of the policy change is smaller, but the defiance of Congress is more overt; the legal foundation might be slightly firmer (as Jell-O is slightly firmer than a pudding) but the bad faith involved in the “emergency” claim is more extreme.And in general, serious conservatives are opposing Trump. Vox co-founder Matthew Yglesias recently snarked about right-wing pundits who got “overheated about ‘Caesarism’ and ‘caudillos’” in the Obama era, mentioning me and National Review editor Rich Lowry as examples. But Lowry has written sharply against the emergency declaration, and I’ll happily endorse his point: If Obama was abusing his powers, then clearly so is Trump.But in terms of the general lure of presidential rule, the general declension of republican norms into imperial habits, I also think Trump’s caudillo act is substantially less dangerous than what his predecessors did.Here I differ not only from liberals who misremember Obama as a punctilious norm-respecter, but also from those conservatives fretting that Trump is establishing a precedent for a future liberal president to impose a Green New Deal by fiat. Not that they won’t be so tempted — but I just can’t imagine anyone looking at the political train wreck of Trump’s unilateralism and seeing a precedent worth invoking.For presidential power to meaningfully expand, it is not enough for a president to simply make a power grab. That grab needs to unite his party (ideally it would also divide the opposition), it needs to be cloaked in enough piety and deniability to find support from would-be referees, it needs to appear to be politically successful, and finally it needs to be ratified by the other branches of government, if only by their inaction.This mostly happened with the post-9/11 war powers claimed by George W. Bush’s administration: There was pushback and resistance, but many Democrats went along, Bush won re-election, and much of his war-on-terror architecture was adopted and expanded by the Obama administration.Obama’s attempt to play Caesar in domestic policy had more mixed results, since the immigration power grab was tied up by the courts until Trump’s election rendered some of it a dead letter. But Obama at least persuaded Democrats and the media to go along with his caesarism, and he established precedents that a President Hillary Clinton would have undoubtedly embraced.With Trump, though, the only clear precedent being set is one of deplorable incompetence. He’s taking unpopular action that divides his party and unites the opposition, he’s doing so with a combination of brazen hypocrisy and nonsense rhetoric that makes the power grab impossible to cloak, he’s guaranteeing himself an extended legal battle — and he isn’t even accomplishing any obvious goal (there’s a reason real immigration restrictionists are against this plan) except the personal one of saving a tiny bit of face.This spectacle will not prevent some future president from abusing an emergency declaration more effectively. But the idea that Trump’s grab enables future abuses more than the moves that Bush and Obama made is extremely dubious. If anything, precisely because his contempt for constitutional limits is so naked and his incompetence so stark, Trump has (modestly, modestly) weakened the imperial presidency by generating somewhat more pushback than his predecessors.So the emergency declaration is not itself a constitutional emergency. Rather, as often in the Trump presidency, it’s a moment that illuminates how a more dangerous would-be autocrat might someday act. It’s a weird foretaste, not the main event. A warning, not a crisis. A clownish interlude in the republic’s decline, not the Rubicon itself.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBooks of The TimesBy Dwight GarnerWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.On the back cover of his new book, “The Threat: How the F.B.I. Protects America in the Age of Terror and Trump,” Andrew G. McCabe looks preposterously fit (he competes in triathlons). His hands are at his hips, gunslinger style. It’s as if he were a kind High Plains sheriff who had stumbled upon an intolerable rodeo of villainy.McCabe’s prose is lean, too. (Not that he wrote this book. In his acknowledgments, he thanks “a great writing and editing team.”) The first sentence demands to be read in the voice of Jack Webb from “Dragnet”: “Between the world of chaos and the world of order stands the rule of law.”McCabe is, of course, the former deputy director of the F.B.I. who was fired last March, just 26 hours before his scheduled retirement. He was briefly the F.B.I.’s acting director, after the dismissal of James B. Comey. The president hooted on Twitter: “Andrew McCabe FIRED, a great day for the hard working men and women of the F.B.I. — A great day for Democracy.”This lawman, a registered Republican for the entirety of his adult life, may have been driven out of Dodge. But he has dusted off his white hat and returned with a memoir that’s better than any book typed this quickly has a right to be.“The Threat” is a concise yet substantive account of how the F.B.I. works, at a moment when its procedures and impartiality are under attack. It’s an unambiguous indictment of Trump’s moral behavior. “Let me state the proposition openly,” McCabe writes. “The work of the F.B.I. is being undermined by the current president.”It’s a rapid-fire G-man memoir, moving from the author’s training in Quantico (shades of “The Silence of the Lambs”) through his experiences chasing the Russian mob, the Boston Marathon bombers and others. The book is patriotic and oddly stirring. It has moments of opacity, where you feel he is holding back at crucial moments, but it is filled with disturbingly piquant details.McCabe made headlines after a recent “60 Minutes” interview, during which he reported that top Justice Department officials, disquieted by Trump’s firing of Comey, discussed trying to encourage cabinet members to invoke the 25th Amendment to remove Trump from office. He also confirmed a New York Times report that the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, offered to wear a wire during his meetings with Trump.These stories, frustratingly, were in the TV interview but are not in this book. But there are many other gleanings.McCabe’s accounts of his baffled interactions with Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, would be high comedy if they were not so dire. They are a highlight, or a lowlight, of this book. We see a Sessions who is openly racist. “Back in the old days,” he says to the author about the F.B.I., “you all only hired Irishmen. They were drunks, but they could be trusted.”Sessions seemed not to read his daily briefings. He had “trouble focusing” and “seemed to lack basic knowledge about the jurisdictions of various arms of federal law enforcement.”Sessions concentrated almost solely on the immigration aspect of any issue, McCabe writes, even when there was no immigration aspect. Similarly, “Sessions spent a lot of time yelling at us about the death penalty, despite the fact that the F.B.I. plays no role of any kind in whether to seek the death penalty.”The portrait of Sessions is of a man for whom merely ordering lunch seems to be above the timberline of his intellect and curiosity.A recent cartoon in The New Yorker depicted a person feverishly covering two walls with a link chart, with names and Scotch tape and Magic Marker, of the Trump administration’s alleged misdeeds. Another person stands watching from a doorway. The caption is: “Hon, Mueller’s got this. Come to bed.”It turns out that Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, has strong opinions about charts. McCabe worked under him at the bureau. “He detested diagonal lines,” McCabe writes. “Some colors he liked. Some he didn’t.” McCabe explains the reasons for these preferences.He writes about Mueller: “Sometimes he would take out the chart and suddenly you would see his face fall, as if to say the kind of thing that he would rarely say: Who made this piece of crap?”Mueller is, in this book, the Mueller we have come to know: punctual, determined, the antithesis of casual, with a special loathing for people who speak when they don’t know what they are talking about.“Ball-busting is his way of expressing affection,” McCabe writes. “If he said, Where does a person even find a tie like that? I knew things were fine: He never went out of his way to insult anyone he didn’t actually like.”McCabe’s memoir joins a roster of recent and alarming books by high-ranking members of the United States’ justice and intelligence communities, each pushing back sharply against the president’s war on facts and competence.These books include Comey’s “A Higher Loyalty” as well as “The Assault on Intelligence,” by Michael V. Hayden, the former director of the National Security Agency, and “Facts and Fears,” by James R. Clapper Jr., the former director of national intelligence, written with Trey Brown.Each is its own Paul Revere ride of warning. Each is a reminder that we will be reading about Trump and his administration for the rest of our lives, for the exact opposite reason that we will also be reading about Lincoln and his for the rest of our lives.There’s much more in McCabe’s book. He’s good on things like what it’s like to take a polygraph test, and the fastest way to take off a seatbelt.He wades back through the big muddy of the Benghazi hearings. He writes of his fears about the increasing use of encryption.He spends a good deal of time talking about Hillary Clinton and her email server. He argues that Comey, whom he admires, made crucial mistakes in how he handled the matter. “As a matter of policy, the F.B.I. does everything possible not to influence elections. In 2016, it seems we did.”He recounts the attacks on his credibility, by Trump and others, after his wife, Jill, ran for Virginia’s State Senate as a Democrat in 2015. He hurt his own credibility, according to the F.B.I. inspector general, by making false statements about his contacts with the media.The Trump-bashing texts between Lisa Page and Peter Strzok, his F.B.I. subordinates, did something worse: They cast doubts about the impartiality of the agency. McCabe rushes past this material too swiftly. Yet if McCabe has made mistakes, his basic decency shines through in this memoir.He adds to our understanding of how deeply Trump remains under Vladimir Putin’s sway. After a North Korean ballistic missile test, Trump told an F.B.I. briefer that reports of the test were a hoax. McCabe writes, incredulously: “He said he knew this because Vladimir Putin had told him so.”About Trump, the author asks, “What more could a person do to erode the credibility of the presidency?” He watches this moral limbo dancer go lower and lower. Yet he sees the president as a symptom as much as a disease.“When is the right time,” he asks, “to give up on people’s general ability to understand any slightly complicated statement that they don’t agree with?”Follow Dwight Garner on Twitter: @DwightGarner.The ThreatHow the FBI Protects America in the Age of Terror and TrumpBy Andrew G. McCabe274 pages. St. Martin’s Press. $29.99.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Susan ChiraEAU CLAIRE, Wis. — Amy Klobuchar cast herself as the candidate from the heartland Saturday in the first campaign trip of her presidential run, visiting a state Hillary Clinton narrowly lost in 2016 and emphasizing her deep Midwestern roots, her knowledge of rural America and her record of bipartisanship while drawing sharp contrasts to President Trump on issues from climate change to immigration.Ms. Klobuchar pointedly chose Wisconsin — the state that Mrs. Clinton did not visit during the general election campaign in 2016 and lost to Mr. Trump by less than one percentage point. The Wisconsin defeat, along with narrow losses in Michigan and Pennsylvania, clinched the election for President Trump and inflicted a devastating wound that still haunts Democrats in Wisconsin and beyond.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]In an already crowded Democratic primary field, Ms. Klobuchar was eager to highlight what her campaign hopes can set her apart: her Midwestern base and her electoral dominance in many rural, red counties in Minnesota populated by the kind of voters who have largely deserted the Democratic Party. She campaigned in Iowa later in the day.“We’re going to look at each other and look at the challenges we face in this country,” she told an enthusiastic crowd jammed into the Shift Cyclery and Coffee Bar. “The challenge that we see in both Minnesota and Wisconsin is about the rural-urban divide. What I’ve decided to do in our state is to go to places that maybe we didn’t focus on enough in the last few years. That includes our rural areas.”When she announced her candidacy on Sunday in a Minnesota blizzard, she drove home the point: “We’re starting in Wisconsin because, as you remember, there wasn’t a lot of campaigning in Wisconsin in 2016,” she said. “With me, that changes.” She added: “I’m going to be here a lot.” It was widely seen as a dig at Mrs. Clinton.She worked quickly to establish her Wisconsin bona fides and to list her engagement with rural issues in the Senate and as a presidential candidate.“I am so pleased to be in Wisconsin, the state where my mother was born,” she said to cheers. Her great-grandparents were cheesemakers, she said, and she visited the state every year of her childhood. She pledged to expand broadband access and demonstrated her knowledge of rural arcana like the margin protection program, which is billed as a safety net for dairy farmers.She also name-checked the local high school colors and the local controversy about the college mascot at the University of Wisconsin, Eau Claire.Ms. Klobuchar’s focus on the Midwest notwithstanding, Democrats are debating whether the best path to the presidency lies through the three key Midwestern and Northern states Mrs. Clinton lost, or through a combination of newly competitive Sun Belt states including Arizona, Georgia and perhaps Texas.In her Eau Claire talk, she soon pivoted to national issues, emphasizing that she had co-sponsored bills with Republicans on several of her priorities. She ticked off her major issues: climate change, lowering health care premiums and the cost of prescription drugs, immigration as the bedrock of American values, passing privacy laws to rein in technology companies, and the importance of protecting voting rights.“What has President Trump done? He’s gone backward, instead of the Wisconsin state motto which is” — she paused and the crowd chimed in — “Forward.” She pledged to rejoin the international climate treaty on her first day as president. She denounced Mr. Trump’s national emergency declaration and emphasized her belief that immigrants are America.Her grandfather, she said, was stopped at Ellis Island — there was apparently a quota on immigrants from Switzerland — and instead entered the United States from Canada. On the eve of World War II, he was fearful he would be deported and successfully applied to become a citizen.“I wouldn’t be here if we didn’t have a sane immigration policy in this country,” Ms. Klobuchar said.Her message of bipartisanship resonated for several voters who came to hear her speak. “I think she is able to work across the aisle in a way that’s been proven,” said Eileen Immerman, 63, a nurse in Eau Claire and a political independent.Although Ms. Klobuchar made no reference to being a woman in her talk, several voters said her gender was also a draw.“I just want to vote for a woman,” said Inga Orth, 37, a dairy farmer who said she knew little about Ms. Klobuchar but was eager to learn more. “I’m just so sick of men — middle-aged men. I think it’s crazy that men are having opinions about abortions: It shouldn’t be men who decide on these things.” She said her top priorities were climate change and women’s rights.That sentiment was not confined to women. “I’m ready for a woman in the top spot,” said Eric Holey, a potter in Eau Claire who was delighted that candidates were visiting Wisconsin, since he said he still believes Mrs. Clinton’s failure to visit once she won the nomination contributed to the Democrats’ loss of the state. He will be evaluating candidates in part based on their support for education and health care for all.Indeed, as Ms. Klobuchar made her way through the crowd, posing for selfies, shaking hands and tickling babies’ stomachs, Jackie Christner, a 74-year-old retired teacher who needs insulin shots, pressed her on whether she supported Medicare for all. Ms. Klobuchar said she wanted to work step by step, and supported expanding Medicaid or Medicare. “To me, that means universal health care,” Ms. Christner said. “But I’m not totally satisfied. How might she do that? I like to know more.”Several voters interviewed shrugged off reports that Ms. Klobuchar had high staff turnover because she was an exceptionally demanding employer. “I think they say that about every woman — it’s so irritating,” Ms. Orth said. “I’m so sick of hearing that women are demanding. Come on.”Ms. Klobuchar’s strong showing in rural Minnesota may offer promising signs in Wisconsin, traditionally divided between the liberal centers of Milwaukee and Madison and the more conservative north. Her potential Midwestern competitors could include Senator Sherrod Brown  of Ohio, who has not yet announced for president, and Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., who has.Wisconsin Democrats are nonetheless relishing the attention, emboldened by last year’s statewide Democratic victories, most notably reclaiming the governor’s office from a staunch conservative, Scott Walker, after eight years, and easily re-electing Senator Tammy Baldwin.“Wisconsin is a place of optimism and energy for Democrats,” said Paul Maslin, a longtime Democratic pollster based in Madison. “We know we’re a big deal. We may decide this.”But he does not think Ms. Klobuchar can coast on regional loyalty. “We’re not going to exclude people because they don’t come from the Midwest,” he said. “It’s a way that she gets into living rooms a little bit quicker than other people do, on a basis that’s a little bit more familiar.”Ultimately, though, he said — and voters in Eau Claire confirmed — Wisconsin voters are looking for someone who can present a vision for the country’s future, with particular attention to health care, the opioid crisis, climate change’s effect on agriculture, plans to halt the region’s declining manufacturing base, trade, and the civil rights of women, gays and lesbians.Nor does he discount Republican strength, having watched the state veer Republican and Democrat over the years. He expects President Trump to court Wisconsin heavily. In a race with so much up in the air, he can predict one thing with certainty: no snubs for his state in this cycle.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________• Despite multiple reports from his own government that call global warming a threat to national security, President Trump plans to set up a panel to examine the question again. It will include William Happer, a climate denialist who has said that carbon dioxide benefits humanity.• Mr. Trump heightened his attacks on the press this week, praising a libel lawsuit against The Washington Post, calling for “retribution” against NBC over “Saturday Night Live” and issuing his sharpest words yet against The Times, which he called “a true ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!”• On one side, Bernie Sanders promises a single-payer revolution. On the other, Amy Klobuchar and Sherrod Brown are calling for incremental change. Here’s how health care became the first real debate of the 2020 Democratic primary.• Just over 24 hours after announcing his presidential bid, Mr. Sanders had already raised $6 million from more than 225,000 donors.• Wealthy investors are seeking tax breaks by plowing money into so-called opportunity zone funds. The funds are a creation of the 2017 tax law that provides incentives for spending on projects in poor areas.• Siding with a drug offender whose $42,000 car was taken by law enforcement officials, the Supreme Court ruled that the Constitution places limits on the ability of states and localities to seize private property allegedly used to commit crimes, a practice known as civil forfeiture.• The Federal Reserve released minutes of its January meeting, which showed that officials had expressed confidence in the economy but saw enough warning signs to warrant a pause in rate increases.• Mr. Trump met with Chancellor Sebastian Kurz of Austria, who shares his appeal to nationalism and determination to crack down on immigration.• Here’s how a veteran campaign operative in rural North Carolina created an illicit operation to collect absentee ballots and sway a House race for the Republican candidate.• Immigrants applying for American citizenship must wait almost twice as long for their applications to be processed as they did two years ago._____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Gabrielle DebinskiThe idea that the diaspora experience is central to America’s narrative is famously expressed in Emma Lazarus’s sonnet at the Statue of Liberty, with its celebrated line, “Give me your tired, your poor/Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.”Our immigration ethos, and an exploration of immigrants’ contributions to American arts and culture, are at the heart of Carnegie Hall’s Migrations: The Making of America festival, which is set to begin on March 9 and run through May 19, and will include concerts at the hall, as well as programming at 80 partner institutions around New York. (Each organization produces its own events.)[Check out our Culture Calendar here.]The goal, according to Clive Gillinson, Carnegie Hall’s executive and artistic director, is to examine the indelible link between the mass movement of people over the past century and American history. “We are inviting audiences to look more closely at how the migrations of people to and within this country, and the evolution of art forms that they have developed here, have been powerful influences on the creation and development of American culture,” he said in a statement.Carnegie Hall will amplify the musical legacies of three migrations: the arrival of Eastern European and Russian Jews between 1881 and 1924; the Irish and Scottish migrations of the 18th and 19th centuries; and the Great Migration of African-Americans from the rural South to the big cities of the Northeast, Midwest and West between 1917 and the 1970s.Three headlining shows will represent musical culture, with traditional Scots, Irish and American folk music; Yiddish musical theater; and jazz and blues.[Read about Jacob Lawrence’s famous paintings of the Great Migration.] Six additional musical soirees (two per motif) will offer contemporary takes on the music — like new-fashioned renditions of Irish and Celtic sounds and klezmer rhythms infused with soulful bluegrass — highlighting how immigrants’ artistry often straddles cultures in America’s melting pot.Cultural events presented by partners will be broader in scope. Such interdisciplinary events, from the Museum of the City of New York, El Museo del Barrio and American Irish Historical Society, examine issues surrounding identity, cultural diffusion and what it means to be an American. More than 100 exhibitions, panels, dance performances, concerts and culinary events are planned.For many institutions, the festival provides a welcome platform to draw attention to the distinct experiences of their communities. The YIVO Institute for Jewish Research, for example, has delved into its extensive archives and has organized an exhibition of prescient cartoons published in Der Groyser Kundes, the Lower East Side’s premier Yiddish satirical weekly paper in the early 1920s. The exhibition, “The Door Slams Shut: Jews and Immigration in the Face of American Reaction,” focuses on New York’s idiosyncratic history in welcoming migrants.“Because our collection has such a large number of documents and artifacts relating to immigration, it just seemed like a perfect fit to explore these complex dynamics,” Eddy Portnoy, YIVO’s director of exhibitions, said in a phone interview.The China Institute, a nearly 100-year-old nonprofit organization, will host an immigration-related panel with the award-winning playwright David Henry Hwang (M. Butterfly) and the musician Du Yun on March 13.More information is at carnegiehall.org/migrations. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Palko KaraszLONDON — Ordering landlords to check prospective tenants’ immigration status leads to racial discrimination and breaches human rights, Britain’s High Court has ruled, in a judgment that deals a blow to migration control measures championed by Prime Minister Theresa May.The mandatory checks are one plank in what has become known as the government’s “hostile environment” policy, which aims to force people in the country illegally to leave by blocking their access to jobs, bank accounts and free medical care, among other things.The policy has been criticized as imposing heavy burdens on legal immigrants and British citizens who are not white but are obliged to prove their status repeatedly. It has brought particularly harsh consequences for the “Windrush generation” of migrants encouraged to move from the Caribbean after World War II to help with Britain’s reconstruction, many of whom never had — or previously needed — the sort of documents demanded.Landlords said the mandatory checks made them “unwilling border police” and discouraged them from renting to anyone whose migration status might not be straightforward.The judgment does not strike down the 2014 legislation that imposed document checks on tenants in England. But it asks Parliament to reconsider how the law is applied and blocks plans to extend the checks to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.A report commissioned by the Residential Landlords Association — which backed the legal challenge brought by an immigrant rights group and decided by the High Court on Friday — found that close to half of landlords were less likely to rent to someone without a British passport.“The measures have a disproportionately discriminatory effect,” Justice Martin Spencer said in his judgment. Even if the checks had been shown to be effective in controlling migration, he added, he “would have found that this was significantly outweighed by the discriminatory effect.”Evidence submitted to the court showed that the government had failed to measure whether the checks resulted in discrimination, or even whether they helped detect and remove people who were in the country illegally.According to the Migration Observatory at the University of Oxford, forced removals and voluntary departures from Britain have declined since 2013.“The net has been cast too wide and the effect of the scheme has been to cause landlords to commit nationality and/or race discrimination against those who are perfectly entitled to rent, with the result that they are less able to find homes than (white) British citizens,” the judge said, citing claims from the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants, which brought the case to court.Mrs. May, who was Britain’s home secretary for six years before becoming prime minister in 2016, has been closely identified with moves to tighten the country’s migration policies. She promised to create “a really hostile environment” for illegal immigration in a 2012 interview with The Daily Telegraph, although her government now prefers to speak of a “compliant environment.”Measures to achieve that included a poster campaign, with billboards driven on vans across London’s suburbs in the summer of 2013, urging those in the country illegally to “Go home or face arrest.”The billboards drew widespread criticism and quickly disappeared. But they were followed by the legislation mandating document checks at many key points in daily life, a cultural shift for Britain, which has no mandatory identity card system, unlike many European countries, and has long considered its relative lack of official paperwork a point of national pride.Criticism of the measures reached a peak last year, when the government had to apologize to Windrush migrants — the name refers to the Empire Windrush, the liner that brought the first large postwar group of arrivals from the West Indies — who had lived legally in Britain for decades but lost their jobs, were denied medical care and even faced the threat of deportation.Friday’s judgment was “another nail in the coffin for the government’s misguided, discriminatory and unworkable hostile environment policy,” Lara ten Caten, a solicitor with Liberty, a group that campaigns for civil liberties and supported the court challenge, told the BBC.“While effective immigration control is a legitimate aim for any government, the Home Office must stop outsourcing its discriminatory policies to third parties who are ill-equipped to enforce them but may be slapped with heavy fines and even end up in prison if they don’t,” she added.The Residential Landlords Association called on the government to scrap the checks and stop relying on landlords to “do the job of the Home Office.”“We have warned all along that turning landlords into untrained and unwilling border police would lead to the exact form of discrimination the court has found,” it said in a statement on Friday.In an emailed statement, the Home Office said it was disappointed with the judgment and that it had been granted permission to appeal.“In the meantime, we are giving careful consideration to the judge’s comments,” the statement said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Azam Ahmed and Kirk SempleMEXICO CITY — Mexican officials are carrying out the Trump administration’s immigration agenda across wide stretches of the border, undercutting the Mexican government’s promises to defend migrants and support their search for a better life.The Mexican authorities are blocking groups of migrants at border towns, refusing to allow them onto international bridges to apply for asylum in the United States, intercepting unaccompanied minors before they can reach American soil, and helping to manage lists of asylum seekers on behalf of the American authorities to limit the number of people crossing the border.Breaking with decades of asylum practice, the Mexican government has also allowed the Trump administration to send more than 120 men, women and children to Tijuana while they await decisions on their asylum applications in the United States. The program could be expanded to other border crossings as soon as next week.Officials inside the administration of Mexico’s new president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, have called his stance on migrants a strategic decision not to anger President Trump.He doesn’t believe he can change Mr. Trump’s mind, they contend. Furthermore, the officials say, Mr. López Obrador has not wanted to jeopardize other aspects of the deeply interconnected relationship between the two countries, ranging from elaborate regional trading arrangements to information sharing on border security, transnational crime and terrorism. So he has avoided a bruising and potentially costly public fight over the issue.A lifelong defender of the poor, Mr. López Obrador often refers to his plans for Mexico as a grand transformation, placing his ambitions for the nation on par with those of its great leaders.He has burnished his everyman credentials by cutting government salaries, flying coach around the country and opening the opulent presidential palace to the public. He has also vastly reduced the number of Central American migrants Mexico deports from its soil.But not everything has transformed.Exhibit A is the Migrant Protection Protocols, the Trump administration’s policy to require asylum seekers to remain on the Mexican side of the border while they await decisions on their fate. Rights groups contend that it dumps migrants in an increasingly violent Mexico and impairs their access to legal counsel and family support in the United States.Mr. López Obrador’s administration, which came into office saying it would not cooperate with Mr. Trump’s anti-immigration agenda, has gone along with it on several fronts, including accepting women and children despite earlier promises to take only adult male asylum seekers.The Mexican government argued the policy requiring asylum seekers to wait in Mexico was imposed on them by the United States and they consented for humanitarian reasons.It is also true that for Mr. López Obrador, giving in to some of Mr. Trump’s border demands and rarely saying a word against the American president in his daily press briefings carries little political cost at home.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]To many Mexicans, the fate of migrants is secondary to domestic concerns about jobs, security and corruption. Mr. López Obrador retains an 80 percent approval rating, despite his government’s willingness to take back migrants applying for asylum in the United States.“If we have to accept a handful of people back into Mexico, that’s not really a problem for us, not even politically,” said one official who was not authorized to discuss internal deliberations. “What we really want to avoid is a public fight with Trump.”But in its effort to avoid a cross-border fight, the Mexican government has chosen politics over its humanitarian ideals, critics contend.“Mexico is continuing to play the role that the U.S. thinks it should, which is to contain the migrant influx, period,” said Melissa Vertiz Hernández, who coordinates the Working Group on Immigration Policy, a network of civil society and rights groups in Mexico.The delicate balance with the United States has left the Mexican government without a clear, consistent immigration policy, so Mexican states and municipalities along the border are often in the position of fending for themselves under pressure from their American counterparts.In the Mexican border city of Reynosa, for instance, almost no one is allowed to cross the bridge to apply for asylum in neighboring McAllen, Texas. They are typically blocked or apprehended by Mexican officials, forcing migrants to try their luck in other towns.In the city of Piedras Negras, officials rounded up hundreds of migrants who arrived in a caravan in recent weeks and kept them under tight watch in a shelter with limited access to outsiders, advocates say. After a public outcry, the center was closed and many were bused to other cities and towns along the border.The mayor of Ciudad Juárez, meanwhile, has threatened to sue a neighboring governor for shipping migrants to his town. It has become a game of political hot potato, with desperate Central Americans who are fleeing poverty and violence caught in the middle.Elsewhere along the border, shelter officials say they manage lists of asylum applicants by name, nationality, age and documentation to assist Mexican officials who are complying with American border patrol mandates.The Mexican government is resisting Mr. Trump in some ways, the official in Mr. López Obrador’s government insisted. Even acquiescing to the Trump administration on the Migrant Protection Protocols was done strategically, according to the official and two others briefed on the plan.By allowing the program to start in San Diego and Tijuana, the Mexican officials argued, legal challenges to it in the United States go to the federal courts in the Northern District of California, which are generally seen as liberal. This matters at a time when many Americans are focused on how to beat Mr. Trump in the 2020 elections, in particular by leveraging the Mexican-American vote.But many activists are far from confident that a legal challenge will put an end to the program.“I think it’s an incredibly risky move,” said Stephanie Leutert, the director of the Mexico Security Initiative at the University of Texas at Austin. “I don’t think you should put your country’s foreign and migratory policy in the hands of a civil society organization in another country.”On Feb. 14, that civil society organization, the American Civil Liberties Union, and several other advocacy groups filed a lawsuit challenging the Trump administration’s policy. A decision on a temporary restraining order is expected in the coming days.The lawsuit, filed on behalf of 11 asylum seekers who were returned to Mexico in recent weeks, accuses the Trump administration of violating federal and international migration and human rights laws.Advocates contend that by forcibly sending asylum seekers to Tijuana, the Trump administration has plunged them into an unfamiliar and dangerous environment where their lives may be in jeopardy.Killings in Tijuana have skyrocketed in recent years because of a turf war in the local drug market. In 2018, the city posted its deadliest year on record, with more than 2,500 killings.The Trump administration first announced the new policy in December, and on Jan. 28 the head of Mexico’s migration agency said the Mexican government had imposed restrictions on its enactment.But Mexican officials have backed down from many of those initial restrictions, including its refusal to accept women with children. Trump administration officials have said they plan to expand the program to other ports of entry along the border. The López Obrador administration has said little publicly about the changes.In Tijuana, several of the returnees — three single men, a single woman, and two mothers each traveling with three children — described their confusion and dismay at finding themselves in Mexico once again.“I have no idea how I’m going to survive,” said Yanira, a 34-year-old migrant from El Salvador who feared being pursued by the people she said she was fleeing in her home country.Yanira said she left El Salvador with her three children — ages 8, 11 and 12 — after a local gang tried to recruit her middle child and threatened violence unless he agreed.When she stepped onto Mexican soil again after being led back across the border by American officials, she broke down.“I cried and cried,” she recalled.Mexican officials have said they cannot provide shelter and care for the returnees, essentially leaving them to a network of community groups in Tijuana and elsewhere in the state of Baja California.But the shelter network has been under extraordinary pressure from the almost-continual arrival of migrants traveling in caravans, who have pushed the centers beyond capacity.Sister Salomé Limas, a social worker at the Instituto Madre Asunta migrant shelter in Tijuana, said it is currently housing about 120 women and children — in a space designed for 44.Among the migrants are several families who are seeking asylum in the United States and were returned in recent weeks under the Trump policy.Sister Salomé said the shelter can house the families until their first court date in the United States, in late March. After that, she is not sure.“What’s going to happen to them?” she said. “We don’t know.”Paulina Villegas contributed reporting from Mexico City.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byObama was a lightning rod. Trump is a lightning strike.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.In 1992, before Bill Clinton became “our first black president,” before Newt Gingrich’s “Republican revolution,” before the advent of Barack Obama, I wrote a book about how race had come to dominate American politics.I argued that the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964set in motion a realignment of the two parties. As whites began to feel the costs of the civil rights revolution — affirmative action, busing, urban violence — Republicans recognized the potential of race to catalytically interact with the broader rights revolution and the anti-tax movement to drive working and middle class voters out of the Democratic Party.I also wrote about the political power of racial resentment:Race gave new strength to themes that in the past had been secondary — themes always present in American politics, but which previously lacked, in themselves, mobilizing power. Race was central, Richard Nixon and key Republican strategists began to recognize, to the fundamental conservative strategy of establishing a new, noneconomic polarization of the electorate, a polarization isolating a liberal, activist, culturally permissive, rights-oriented and pro-black Democratic Party against those unwilling to pay the financial and social costs of this reconfigured social order.The situation hasn’t changed much.Heading into the 2020 election, President Trump is prepared for the second time in a row to run a racist campaign. He continues, for example, to denigrate, in virulent terms, immigrants from Mexico and Central America.At the same time, Democrats are doubling down on a racially liberal political agenda, becoming more outspoken and more confrontational in their defense of diversity and multiculturalism. Two of the party’s top-tier candidates for president — Senator Cory Booker and Senator Kamala Harris — are African-American, one — Julián Castro — is Latino, and all of the current Democratic contenders unabashedly promote the rights of racial and ethnic minorities. The continuing Democratic quandary is how to maximize essential minority turnout, and at the same time retain — or recruit — sufficient numbers of white working class voters to secure victory on Election Day.My Times colleagues Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns reported on Feb. 25 that Democratic operatives are debating whether the party should spend “time, money and psychic energy tailoring their message to a heavily white, rural and blue-collar part of the country” or focus instead on areas where “their coalition is increasingly made up of racial minorities and suburbanites.”The dispute, according to Martin and Burns,is not merely a tactical one — it goes to the heart of how Democrats envision themselves becoming a majority party. The question is whether that is accomplished through a focus on kitchen-table topics like health care and jobs, aimed at winning moderates and disaffected Trump voters, or by unapologetically elevating matters of race and identity, such as immigration, to mobilize young people and minorities with new fervor.Poll data suggests that Trump is driving Democratic liberals further left and conservative Republicans further right on a key test of racial attitudes.Michael Tesler, a political scientist at the University of California-Irvine and the author of the 2016 book “Post Racial or Most Racial,” writes in “Racial Attitudes and American Politics,” a chapter in a forthcoming book:Democratic and Republican voters do not simply disagree about what the government should do on racially charged issues like immigration and affirmative action, they now inhabit increasingly separate realities about race in America.The growing alignment between racial attitudes and public opinion, Tesler continues, “has polarized the electorate and helped make American politics increasingly vitriolic.”Racial attitudes have, in turn, become indelibly linked to partisan identification and “party identification influences just about everything in contemporary American society,” Tesler writes:Partisanship is not only the most important determinant of our vote choices and policy preferences, but it shapes countless other beliefs and behaviors. Party identification has even been linked to who we find attractive and who we decide to marry, how we perceive objective conditions like the unemployment rate and federal budget deficit, which neighborhoods we want to live in, and the type of TV shows and cars we like.Because of this, Tesler argues, “the racialization of party identification is by itself the racialization of American politics and society.”Ryan Enos, a Harvard political scientist notes thatThe pull of racial attitudes seems to be moving both directions — so that racial conservatives are being drawn into the GOP and racial liberals are being drawn into the Democratic Party.Political ideology, Enos continued in an email,is a broad orientation that is influenced by basic psychological traits and these traits orient a person toward a particular worldview that can be ideologically conservative or liberal and also causes one to be more or less ethnocentric.The growing linkage between ideological and ethnocentric views has, in turn, contributed to a striking development in congressional elections.Stephen M. Utych, a political scientist at Boise State University, conducted a detailed analysis — “Man Bites Blue Dog: Are Moderates Really More Electable than Ideologues?” — of winners and losers in House races from 1980 to 2012.Utych found that a core premise of both political operatives and political scientists — that “moderate candidates should be more electable in a general election than ideologically extreme candidates” — is no longer true.In fact, in 2012, ideologically extreme candidates became more electable than moderates, as the accompanying graphic shows.Moderate candidates for U.S. House seats used to have a big edge over those who were much more ideological (either toward the left or the right). In 2012, the ideologues were more successful, and moderates’ odds of winning fell to about 50-50.CANDIDATESWONModerate candidatesEVENCHANCE OFWINNINGStrongly ideological candidatesModerateslost their edgein 2012 (the latestdata available)CANDIDATESLOST’80’84’88’92’96’00’04’08’12CANDIDATES WONModerate candidatesEVEN CHANCE OF WINNINGModerateslost their edgein 2012 (the latestdata available)Strongly ideological candidatesCANDIDATES LOST’80’84’88’92’96’00’04’08’12By The New York Times | Source: analysis of Database on Ideology, Money in Politics and Elections (Adam Bonica, Stanford University) by Stephen Utych, Boise State UniversityIn 1980, at the start of the period Utych studied,moderates were quite likely to win — very extreme candidates were less than 20 percent likely to win election in 1980, while ideologically moderate candidates were nearly 80 percent likely to win.By 2008, however, Ultych observes,ideologically extreme candidates and moderates became indistinguishable in their likelihood of winning an election, with predicted probabilities of winning hovering around 50 percent for both.In an email, Utych pointed out that racial views are extremely significant in the trends he describes:The importance of racial attitudes, and how intertwined with politics they’ve become, can go a long way to explaining polarization.Tesler and many other academics use a set of polling questions to determine the intensity of what they call “racial resentment.” Whites who score high in racial resentment have consistently voted in higher percentages for Republican presidential candidates.“From 1988 to 2012 average white resentment scores were very stable, but in 2016 something quite notable happened,” Tesler explained by email. Referring to data from American National Election Studies, Tesler pointed out that White resentment was significantly lower in 2016 than had ever been recorded in the ANES. It’s not just the ANES or resentment, either. Across several surveys and attitudes, the country has grown significantly more liberal on several questions related to race, immigration, Islam and gender since Trump’s campaign.The shift to the left was not, however, across the board. It was driven by one group: Democrats and voters who lean toward the Democratic Party.“This growing tolerance is largely confined to Democrats and Democratic leaning Independents,” Tesler wrote, adding thatDemocrats have grown more tolerant as a backlash against Trumpism. It also means that while the country is growing more tolerant, they’re also more polarized over race and ethnicity.The accompanying graphic, based on data provided by Tesler, demonstrates the growing partisan division over race, in this case showing levels of agreement with the statement “racial discrimination is the main reason why many black people can’t get ahead these days.”From 2008 through 2016, very few Republicans agree, and their disagreement remains constant. Democratic agreement, in contrast, shot up, from just over a quarter to well over half.A Pew survey found that a majority of Democrats, after the election of President Trump, agreed with this statement: “Racial discrimination is the main reason why many black people can’t get ahead these days.” Republican views scarcely budged.75% AGREE66%Trump announcescandidacy in June 20154450%Democrats2825%Republicans1112%8Nov.2009Mar.’11Jan.’12Mar.’14Aug.’15Feb.’17July’1775% AGREE66%Trump announces candidacyin June 20154450%Democrats2825%Republicans1112%8Nov.2009Mar.’11Jan.’12Mar.’14Aug.’15Feb.’17July’17By The New York Times | Sources: Pew Research Center; “Identity Crisis: The 2016 Presidential Campaign and the Battle for the Meaning of America Hardcover,” by John Sides, Michael Tesler and Lynn VavreckTesler argues that racially resentful voters turned against Obama in higher percentages than in past elections when the Democratic nominee was white, but Obama made up for his losses with higher turnout and stronger margins of victory among blacks and white liberals. Tesler calls this phenomenon “two sides of racialization”:Obama performed particularly poorly among racially resentful whites, but garnered more votes from African Americans and white racial liberals than a similarly situated white Democratic candidate.Instead of costing him votes, Tesler continued, thelarge effects of racial attitudes in Obama’s election, therefore, did not so much hurt him electorally as they polarized voter preferences based on their feelings about African-Americans.In 2016, even though both presidential candidates were white, race played an even larger role than it did in the two Obama elections.That year, Tesler wrote,the American public saw a much wider gulf between Clinton and Trump’s positions on issues like immigration and federal aid to African Americans than they had perceived between prior Democratic and Republican presidential candidates.That, in turn, set the stage forattitudes about race and ethnicity to matter more in 2016 than they had in modern times. Across several different racial attitude measures in a number of different surveys, views about race and ethnicity were more strongly related to vote choice in 2016 than they were in Obama’s elections.On Feb. 19, Gallup reported that the liberal faction of the Democratic Party is growing:Increased liberal identification has been particularly pronounced among non-Hispanic white Democrats, rising 20 percentage points from an average 34 percent in the early 2000s to 54 percent in the latest period. By contrast, Gallup trends show a nine-point rise in the percent liberal among Hispanic Democrats, from 29 percent to 38 percent, and an eight-point increase among black Democrats, from 25 percent to 33 percent.Lydia Saad, a senior editor at Gallup, provided additional survey data showing a marked leftward trend among white Democrats during and after the election of President Trump. The percentage of white Democrats who describe themselves as “socially liberal” grew from 39 percent in 2001 to 2006 to 50 percent in 2007 to 2012 and to 63 percent in 2013 to 2018, according to Gallup. This 24-point increase outpaced black Democrats, who went from 33 to 41 percent, and Hispanic Democrats who went from 28 to 36 percent. (Of course, the percentage of white voters who identify as Democrats is much lower than it is for African-America or Hispanic voters.)The Gallup data showed similar leftward shifts among white Democrats on taxing the rich, abortion, gay rights and a wide range of other issues.Not only has the Trump presidency pushed Democrats in a progressive direction, Trump himself has played a crucial role in maintaining Democratic unity, according to Gallup:The Democrats’ grand unifier stands outside the party. Despite differing ideologies and opposing views on some issues, on average last year, 82 percent of conservative Democrats, 91 percent of moderate Democrats and 96 percent of liberal Democrats disapproved of the job President Donald Trump was doing as president.As they prepare for the general election, Democrats battling for the nomination (and their strategists) will struggle to understand how and where their increasingly strong commitment to racial and cultural liberalism conflicts with the views of the general electorate.This week, for example, the Pew Research Center released a study showing that 73 percent of Americans oppose racial and ethnic affirmative action policies in college admissions. Pew reported that 7 percent of those surveyed said race should be a major factor, while 19 percent said it should be a minor factor.Similarly, Democratic strategists will be evaluating the issue of reparations, which three major candidates — Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Julián Castro — have endorsed so far, in various forms.In 2015, CNN and the Kaiser Family Foundation polled Americans’ view of reparations and found that while African Americans were in favor (52-42), Hispanics (at 57-37), and whites (89-8), were firmly against.In “The Distorting Effects of Racial Animus on Proximity Voting in the 2016 Elections,” Carlos Algara and Isaac Hale, political scientists at the University of California at Davis, show how powerful race has become in mobilizing support for Republicans: “Not only did Trump’s frequent invocations of race in the 2016 campaign prime voters with high levels of racial animus to evaluate the presidential contest in racial terms,” they write, but the increased salience of race in the 2016 campaign “percolated to relatively low-information congressional contests as well.”The result, Algara and Hale show, is that voters liberal on issues other than race defect “to Republican candidates up and down the ticket when they harbor racial animus.” Racial animosity, they write, hurts both black and white Democratic candidates: “Racial animus (at least when salient) harms Democratic candidates across the board.”I began this column with a pair of quotes from my 1992 book, “Chain Reaction.” Here is another pair:As the civil rights movement became national, as it became clearly associated with the Democratic Party, and as it began to impinge on local neighborhoods and schools, it served to crack the Democratic loyalties of key white voters. Crucial numbers of voters — in the white, urban and suburban neighborhoods of the North, and across the South — were, in addition, deeply angered and distressed by aspects of the rights revolution. It had been among the white working and lower-middle classes that many of the social changes stemming from the introduction of new rights — civil rights for minorities, reproductive and workplace rights for women, constitutional protections for the criminally accused, immigration opportunities for those from developing countries, free-speech rights to pornographers, and the surfacing of highly visible homosexual communities — have been most deeply resisted.And from the book’s conclusion:At stake is the American experiment itself, endangered by a rising tide of political cynicism and alienation, and basic uncertainties as to whether or not we are capable of transmitting a sense of inclusion and shared citizenship across an immense and diverse population — whether or not we can uphold our traditional commitment to the possibilities of justice and equality expressed in our founding documents and embedded in our most valued democratic institutions.The question stands out even more starkly now than it did 27 years ago, with a president we could not then have imagined, who is willing, even eager, to play with fire.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jon CaramanicaALPHARETTA, Ga. — At the beginning of the year, 21 Savage was at his commercial apex. His second album, “I Am > I Was,” spent two weeks atop the Billboard album chart. “Rockstar,” his collaboration with Post Malone, was nominated for two Grammys, and he was set to perform at the ceremony.But now he has a new, perhaps even higher-profile public role: To his supporters, he’s a possible martyr of conscience, under fire for his choice to express his political views in his music.A week before the Grammys, 21 Savage was arrested in Atlanta and put into removal proceedings by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which said he was an “unlawfully present United Kingdom national” and charged him with overstaying his visa. A week and a half later, he was released on $100,000 bond.21 Savage — birth name She’yaa bin Abraham-Joseph — was, unknown to most, born in London in 1992, and an undocumented immigrant in the United States. That alone makes him vulnerable to removal by the immigration authorities.But in an interview earlier this month, two of his attorneys — Dina LaPolt, his general counsel, and Charles Kuck, his immigration attorney — proposed that there might have been political motivations at play.Three days before 21 Savage’s arrest on Feb. 3, LaPolt was already putting an action plan in motion. “We had heard that they were looking at him,” she said.In late January, 21 Savage performed a new version of his single “A Lot” on “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon,” with lyrics that touched on the issue of children being separated from their parents at the United States border, a controversial Trump administration tactic to discourage illegal immigration.“There was scuttlebutt after the Jimmy Fallon show” coming from “some very high levels in Washington,” LaPolt added. What she heard suggested that 21 Savage had ruffled feathers.And so on the Thursday before the Super Bowl, LaPolt dispatched another attorney from her firm, Danielle Price, to Georgia to accompany 21 Savage back to California, a more immigrant-friendly state with a newly passed sanctuary law. He declined to go until after completing his contractual commitments — a pair of concerts at events surrounding the game — that weekend.While his case winds its way through the immigration system, 21 Savage’s team has been actively underscoring the political dimension to his plight and marshaling public support. A #Free21Savage coalition of a couple of dozen activist organizations is drawing attention to his situation, and two members of Congress — Hank Johnson and Zoe Lofgren — spoke publicly on his behalf while he was still in detention. Lofgren, from California and chairwoman of the House Judiciary Immigration and Citizenship Subcommittee, released a statement opening the door for 21 Savage to appear as a witness before her subcommittee and floating the idea that he had been arrested as a result of publicly questioning United States immigration policy. “Was his arrest in response to his Constitutionally protected speech?” the statement said. “It looks like that.”Bryan D. Cox, ICE’s Southern Region Communications Director, said in an email, “We’re not able to give any additional comment on this case.”Now that 21 Savage has been released on bond, his case moves to a different docket, for those who aren’t detained. The wait for his next hearing could be more than a year. “Time is our friend,” Kuck said. “We want to make sure we can maximize the politics and the process.”When 21 Savage was in detention, he “tried to refrain from talking to my mama and my kids — I ain’t want them to hear me through the phone,” the rapper said. He did want to speak with his lawyers, however. “I don’t like hopes and none of that,” he said he had told them. “Keep it real.”Between them, there is an easy rapport. In his music, 21 Savage rarely raps above a whisper, and in person, he was contained and disarmingly calm, speaking forcefully without ever raising his voice. On the day after his release, he was wearing all black, from his Balenciaga jacket to his Prada shoes, and his demeanor was studious. By contrast, his lawyers were sharp-tongued and defiant. While they barked on his behalf, he maintained imperturbable cool.For now, anyway, they will do much of the speaking. After interviews the day after his release with The New York Times and “Good Morning America,” 21 Savage has gone almost completely silent.HIP-HOP MYTHOLOGIES are built on regional specificities. More than any other genre in American pop, rap music understands itself as the product of place. 21 Savage’s Atlanta is and has been the center of the genre’s innovation for more than a decade now — the most vital creative hotbed of the most vital American music.So the knowledge that he initially came from elsewhere served as a useful reminder that this American music, like so many American musics before it, wouldn’t sound the same without immigrants. A quick reminder: Almost all of hip-hop’s founder generation — Kool Herc, Grandmaster Flash, Doug E. Fresh — was born in the Caribbean. The island influence continues through today: Last year, Nicki Minaj wrote on Instagram about coming to the United States as an undocumented immigrant from Trinidad and Tobago when she was 5.Hip-hop has also faced immigration crises before. Slick Rick, one of the most innovative rappers of the late 1980s and early 1990s, was born in England. In 1991, he pleaded guilty to two counts of attempted murder (and other charges) in connection with the 1990 shooting of his former bodyguard. In 2001, he was arrested after performing on a cruise ship that left American waters and put into deportation proceedings, beginning a tug-of-war over his residency until 2008, when he was pardoned by David A. Paterson, then the governor of New York. In 2016, Slick Rick was granted United States citizenship.In 2009, Shyne — a protégé of Sean Combs — was deported to Belize, where he was born, not long after completing his sentence for attempted murder, assault and reckless endangerment related to the infamous 1999 shooting at Club New York (which also involved Combs and his girlfriend at the time, Jennifer Lopez).Slick Rick was, at times, a cause célèbre, but largely among the genre’s elders. Shyne became, in essence, collateral damage of late-90s rap excess. But both cases unfolded in far less dramatic moments of the immigration debate. By rapping about the child separation policy, 21 Savage inserted himself directly into a noxious political climate. And while many rappers, from YG to Eminem to Jay-Z, have spoken openly of their contempt for President Trump and his policies, none had as much to lose.Early in his career, 21 Savage did not immediately appear as a likely candidate for a political agitator. On his earliest mixtapes, he emerged as a coldhearted menace, dulled to the world’s pain. His lyrics were bleak, his attitude bleaker. Over the last couple of years, as he has become increasingly popular, he’s been steadily remaking his public image — a product, he said, of being exposed to more of the world.“I think financial freedom made me grow as a person,” he said, speaking about his desire to help others. “I did it as soon as I had the resources and the time. ‘Cause when you first start making money, it’s like you still figuring yourself out.”“But then it’s like, O.K., we a machine now,” he added. “Now we can get everybody else right.”It was this impulse, LaPolt said, that resonated with her when she was first in discussions to represent 21 Savage last year. “I realized how much he did for the community,” she said, citing his back-to-school drives and interest in spreading financial literacy to underserved populations. “I said to the rest of the team, ‘This needs to be at the forefront of the storytelling.’”LaPolt is a prominent music industry attorney who was one of the primary engines of the Music Modernization Act, the copyright legislation that was signed into law in October and which, among other things, updates how royalties are paid in the streaming age. When 21 Savage was arrested, she put her Washington connections to work. Johnson, a Congressman from Georgia who had attended a back-to-school drive organized by 21 Savage, wrote a letter of support. Lofgren’s statement came soon after.On the Sunday of the Grammys ceremony, which 21 Savage ended up watching on a television in his detention-center cell, Kuck called ICE’s toll-free number for detainee information and learned that, unexpectedly, a hearing had been scheduled for Tuesday morning.NOW THAT 21 SAVAGE has been released from detention, the push to secure his status continues. His legal team has applied for cancellation of removal, which is available to individuals who have been in the United States for more than 10 years, have American citizen family members who rely on them, are of good moral character and have no disqualifying criminal convictions.In interviews early in his career, 21 Savage spoke frankly about his life before music. “I done sold cocaine, sold crack cocaine,” he told The Fader in 2016. “I never sold, like, a whole brick. I done took bricks.” In 2014 he was arrested, and later convicted, on drug charges. Last year, through a first-offender program, the conviction was removed from public record, though that still had “monstrous immigration consequences,” Kuck said. Subsequently, LaPolt hired the Atlanta-area attorney Abbi S. Taylor, who secured the vacating of the plea and the dismissal of the charges. The file is now sealed. A search for 21 Savage on the Georgia Felon Search website turns up nothing.In an hour-plus interview, 21 Savage declined to speak only about the particulars of his prior interactions with law enforcement.When ICE arrested 21 Savage, it stated that he had been convicted of an “aggravated felony” in addition to overstaying his visa. At the hearing where he was granted bond, it formally withdrew that charge.“Not only does he not have a conviction, but there are no pending charges, there never will be any charges from that, and that case is sealed,” Kuck said, “so it simply never happened.”But the specter of that case highlights a potential continuing concern: that 21 Savage’s public persona — his art, his social media, his prior public statements — could be leveraged against him. (Public image, and especially lyrical content, have often been used in legal proceedings involving hip-hop artists, as seen recently in the case of 6ix9ine.)Kuck said that such topics were raised in the first hearing, though, “it didn’t come up in a way that we believe hurt our case.”“I’m very optimistic,” Kuck added. “I am convinced that we will ultimately obtain permanent residence for him.”Asked if the uncertainty he still faces causes him anxiety, 21 Savage was blunt: “Hell yeah.”That he could be used as a political cudgel isn’t lost on anyone, including 21 Savage himself. “He goes, ‘Well, I don’t want Trump to come at me,’ and I go, ‘You’re the last person he’s going to come after,’” LaPolt said. “Who in their right mind is going to come after him and not have a complete backlash?”But for someone who for most of his life has lived with the permanent uncertainty of the undocumented, he was at his most exultant and confident speaking about not having to fight alone.“It’s like putting bulletproof glass in front of a bulletproof vest,” 21 Savage said. “I’m going to stand up already, this vest already going to stop any bullet you throw, and y’all going to come help and put some glass in front of it too? This can’t be stopped. We a tank now. We was already the army — now we coming in tanks.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAfter being deported from the United States as a collegian, Hector Majul has bounced around, most recently landing in Lithuania. By Tal PinchevskyPerhaps the only thing more unusual than being a Mexican in Lithuania is being a Mexican hockey player in Lithuania.So the general astonishment that has greeted Hector Majul since his arrival in Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital, in late November does not surprise him.At 24, he is a forward for the Hockey Punks, one of four teams in the country’s largely unknown professional league. That move was another unforeseen step on an unconventional hockey path, which shifted when Majul was deported to Mexico during his college career in the United States.“He is an impressive skater,” said Boris Dorozhenko, Majul’s childhood coach and mentor. “The only problem for him was always his Mexican citizenship.”Like a growing number of international athletes who want to pursue careers in the United States, Majul found that his immigration status — and what some view as suddenly stringent enforcement of technicalities — had become a major impediment. In a country that has long tried to attract athletes and artists with special talents, what once appeared to be a fairly clear path to at least semi-permanent residency has become a far more arduous road. The possibility of deportation can arise with just one unsatisfactory answer to an immigration official, whether spoken or written on a form.In Majul’s case, an incorrect response a year and a half ago led to a dizzying journey back to Mexico, then on to Switzerland and now to Lithuania, with no promise of a return to the United States in the near future. Dorozhenko, who played hockey in the former Soviet Union, discovered a 6-year-old Majul in Mexico City after becoming a coach with the Mexican national program in the early 1990s.Dorozhenko eventually landed a hockey job in Arizona, and Majul, 14 at the time, followed him. Because he was attending high school, Majul entered the United States with a student visa, then became a fixture at hockey clinics in the area, alongside a local standout named Auston Matthews. Drafted first over all by the Toronto Maple Leafs in 2016, Matthews is now among the N.H.L.’s brightest stars. Majul was allowed to stay in the United States after high school, first on an amateur athlete visa, known as a P1, then on another student visa when he landed at Curry College in Massachusetts to play Division III hockey in 2015. By then he was a star for Mexico in international competition. In his first appearance in the International Ice Hockey Federation’s Division II Group B world championship tournament in 2014, he tied for the team’s scoring lead and helped Mexico finish one win shy of promotion to a higher division. He was named the tournament’s top forward in 2015 and again in 2016.“I know there have been professional players that have Mexican descent or Mexican parents,” Majul said, referring specifically to the N.H.L. (Matthews’s mother is from Mexico.) “But there has never been a Mexican-born pro hockey player. I want to be that guy.”But on Aug. 22, 2017, as Majul returned to the United States from a trip home to see family, Customs and Border Protection officials at William P. Hobby Airport in Houston discovered a makeup box belonging to his girlfriend, Katy Weizman. An American, Weizman had accompanied Majul on the trip and returned to the United States the previous week. The makeup kit contained a week’s supply of Concerta, her A.D.H.D. medication and a controlled substance.Majul said that the Houston Police Department had declined to further investigate his possession of the drug, but that he was detained and questioned that night and into the morning. According to an appeal filed by his lawyer, Majul told a customs agent that he had left Mexico “to pursue a career in ice hockey.” Based on this admission, Majul was found to have expressed an intention to violate the terms of his student visa. The visa was canceled, and he was deported after almost a decade of legally living and training in the United States. When contacted about this case, the Customs and Border Protection agency said in a statement that officers had found that Majul “provided differing answers when asked about his trip to the U.S. and the reason he departed his country of origin.” Majul’s lawyer submitted an appeal in September 2017, saying the officers had overreached in their decision. The appeal was denied. Marian Daugherty, who took Majul into her home when he first moved to the United States, set up a “Bring Hector Back” Facebook page and reached out to the office of then-Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, to no avail.Majul was left to train in Mexico City, unable to return to the United States until 2022 and without the services of an agent. But with only 1,552 registered hockey players in Mexico, compared with more than 562,000 in the United States, Majul knew he would need to go elsewhere to keep up his game.Majul and Dorozhenko canvassed their hockey network. Their search drew the attention of Arno Del Curto, who for 22 years had led the Davos hockey club in Switzerland. Equipped with a 90-day tourist visa, Majul ventured to Switzerland. Within three weeks, he was told that the team wanted him to stay.“It was a huge relief,” Majul said. “I’m going to be honest, I think I teared up a little bit when I talked to my parents.”But immigration would again become a hurdle. To qualify for  certification, Majul needed to have been considered a professional before arriving in Switzerland. Because he had most recently played competitive hockey in college and  with the Mexican national team, he was deemed an amateur and denied a visa. The club in Davos appealed to the Swiss government, even offering to hire Majul as a skills coach in the hopes that might provide a legal workaround.By November, with only five days remaining on his tourist visa and all his options exhausted, Majul went to train with a coach and former colleague of Dorozhenko’s in Serbia. Days later, he received an invitation to join Hockey Punks. The Lithuanian club signed Majul to a contract, provided an apartment in Vilnius and helped him stabilize his immigration status. In perhaps the most unexpected turn of this hockey escapade, Majul is not the only Mexican on the team. His countryman Arunas Bermejo joined the club while studying in Lithuania.“It’s a steppingstone, something to help me get to the next level,” Majul said. “Usually when people say they’re going to Europe, nobody thinks of Lithuania or Vilnius.”He acknowledged that the transition to life in Vilnius was difficult, especially considering the abrupt nature of his arrival. But he has come to enjoy his new surroundings.“It’s actually a really nice town,” Majul said. “Great food, people are very friendly. I think the only downside is how cold it is.”The average high temperature in Vilnius in February is 30 degrees — not frigid, unless your reference points are Mexico and Arizona.Majul has been approved for worker certification that for the next year or two  will allow him to work within the Schengen Area, a region of 26 European nations, including Switzerland. That would make it easier for Majul to rejoin Davos for the 2019-20 season. (That hope was muddled when Del Curto announced his resignation in November.) Daugherty helped Majul enroll in online classes through Arizona State University, and he is working to complete his degree.In his first professional game, on Dec. 22, a 5-2 loss to Kaunas, Majul registered an assist. In his first eight games with the club, Majul collected a goal and six assists. He has not given up on his pro hockey dreams, including a potential return to the United States.“I think in North America I have this label of, ‘Why is a Mexican playing hockey? He should be playing soccer,’” Majul said. “Don’t get me wrong. Here it’s also a shock when they hear there’s a Mexican hockey player. But after they see me playing, they see the level that I have, it kind of speaks for itself.”“I think that was maybe the way it had to go,” he added. “Maybe for me to be able to go on to the next level, I had to come and make it through here first.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriA 24-year-old Honduran woman gave birth to a stillborn baby boy last week while in ICE custody, the authorities said Monday, further raising concerns about the care pregnant women receive while detained.The woman, whose name has not been released, was apprehended by United States Border Patrol officials near Hidalgo, Tex., on Feb. 18, according to a joint statement issued Monday by Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection. She told the authorities that she was six months pregnant, and she was taken to a hospital and examined, the agencies said.The woman was placed in ICE custody at the Port Isabel Detention Center near Los Frenos, Tex., and set to be released last Friday. Then she complained of abdominal pain and was to be sent to a hospital, but went into labor.She gave birth to an unresponsive baby boy. Danielle Bennett, an ICE spokeswoman, said she had seen no information that indicated the woman’s detention contributed to the stillbirth.“Although for investigative and reporting purposes, a stillbirth is not considered an in-custody death, ICE and CBP officials are proactively disclosing the details of this tragic event to be transparent with Congress, the media and the public,” the agencies said in the statement.Ms. Bennett said that ICE has 60 pregnant detainees in custody and that between Oct. 1, 2017, and Aug. 31, 2018, more than 1,600 pregnant women had been booked into ICE custody.Twenty-eight women “may have experienced a miscarriage just prior to, or while in ICE custody” between Oct. 1, 2016, and Aug. 31, 2018, she said.Ms. Bennett said that without a full understanding of someone’s medical history, it was difficult to tell what caused a miscarriage or when exactly it began.Randy Capps, director of United States research for the Migration Policy Institute, said because the woman’s detention was only for a few days, “it would seem unlikely detention was the cause” of the stillbirth.But how immigration officials care for people in their custody has been under scrutiny in recent months. An 8-year-old Guatemalan boy, Felipe Gómez Alonso, died on Christmas Eve while in United States custody, and three weeks earlier, a 7-year-old Guatemalan girl, Jakelin Caal Maquin, died in Border Patrol custody.“There has been more and more public death,” said Erika Andiola, chief of advocacy for the Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services, or Raices, a nonprofit organization that provides low-cost legal defense services to immigrant and refugee families in Texas.She said the treatment of pregnant women had been a particular focus after the Trump administration said it would stop assuming pregnant women should be released, instead detaining them on a case-by-case basis.Ms. Andiola said based on interviews with migrants who have recently left detention centers, some pregnant women do not get the care they need at the centers. For example, some were told they would be taken to off-site medical professionals but never were, she said.“We know those are not the best conditions for pregnant women at all,” Ms. Andiola said. “This is not surprising, really.”The story of the Honduran woman detailed Monday still has many uncertainties. It is not clear how or why she was taken into custody by the Border Patrol officers or how it was determined that she should be released.Ms. Bennett, the spokeswoman, referred questions about the woman’s apprehension to Customs and Border Protection. C.B.P. did not answer questions seeking more information Monday.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byMODERN LOVEModern Love in miniature, featuring reader-submitted stories of no more than 100 words. For this issue, we sought stories from our Australian readers.On holiday in America, I became pen pals with a guy who loves Aussie wildlife. Back in Sydney, I told my 85-year-old grandmother I wanted to send him photos of native birds. Weeks later, I received a voice mail message from her, saying, “I took my first photo! It’s a cockatoo for you to send to that boy you like in New York.” It was blurry, and his response wasn’t game-changing, but I’ll always remember that my grandmother learned how to use an iPhone just so she could help me impress a bloke overseas. The ultimate wingwoman. — Hayley NobleI felt like such a city boy when we visited her family farm in Collie, New South Wales. Born and raised in Sydney’s inner city, I had no dust on my boots or dirt under my nails. “You drive a Ute?” her grandfather asked me, referring to a utility vehicle. “Absolutely,” I lied. When I crashed through the back of their garage, I figured we were over. At least it’ll make a good story: “I used to date this girl until her grandfather killed me.” He ran over, unleashing an impressive torrent of curse words. Then I saw her doubled over laughing and knew everything would be OK. — Thomas MitchellWhen I was 15, I bought a white dress at a store called “Tree of Life.” I told my best friend that one day I would marry her in it. We laughed, which hurt me, though I couldn’t figure out why. Eventually, I worked it out and told her the truth: None of it had ever been a joke. In the same sentence, she told me she loved me but we could never happen — girls didn’t marry other girls. In 2017, when marriage equality passed in Australia, she was the first person I thought of, my first great love. I’ve kept the white dress. I don’t think I could ever throw it away. — Eleanor GerrardThe sniffer dog at Sydney Airport detected the forgotten apple buried deep in my husband’s backpack. (Two trips before, my dearest had mistakenly ticked all the “yes” boxes on the immigration card. Tuberculosis: yes. Biological specimens: yes. Firearms: yes. Illicit drugs: yes. “Mate,” sighed the immigration officer. “The fellow before you only spoke German and he got it right.”) I worked my jet-lagged child’s foot into a sneaker, wondering how it came to pass that I am saddled with such a travel partner. Oh yes, it was a proposal — at an airport. I hope we’re always traveling together. — Kate PalmerA December wedding planned to a tee. Flowering Eucalyptus gums dripped with pink and orange. Cicadas roared. The menu was Thai, the wine organic, the air so humid my earrings slipped off my lobes. We shot photos by the Hawkesbury River as the storm rolled in, drawing closer with each shutter snap. Guests turned to look, then edged toward the barn. Dark rain on the water, lightning on the bank. “Time to bail,” said our photographer, hopping down the hill. “This is the best apocalypse I’ve ever attended,” said a friend, soaked, pulling the barn door shut with a screech. — Sophie McComasSee more Tiny Love Stories at nytimes.com/modernlove.Submit yours at nytimes.com/tinylovestories.To hear Modern Love: The Podcast, subscribe on iTunes or Google Play Music. To read past Modern Love columns, click here. Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Talya MinsbergHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — Ashton B. Carter, the former secretary of defense, understands why employees of technology companies have opposed partnerships and contracts with the United States government when it comes to artificial intelligence.“My first reaction was ‘good on you’ because you are thinking morally and you are thinking about whether what you are doing is right or wrong,” Mr. Carter said at The New York Times New Work Summit in Half Moon Bay, Calif.The sentiment comes at a time of strained relationships between Silicon Valley technology behemoths and the United States government.When Mr. Carter was secretary of defense in the Obama administration, he was often considered a bridge builder between the Beltway and the Valley, founding agencies that brought together technologists and policymakers.He notably issued a directive that stands today. “In any application of machine-assisted weaponry that involves the use of lethal force, there shall be a human being involved in the decision-making,” he said.But those partnerships have been tested in the past year as protests, pushback and petitions have circulated widely among employees of technology companies.Last July, Microsoft employees presented their chief executive, Satya Nadella, with a petition signed by more than 300,000 people that called on the company to cancel its contract with Immigration and Customs Enforcement.Last June, Google declined to renew its contract with Project Maven at the Pentagon after extensive pushback from employees. The project used Google’s artificial intelligence software to improve the sorting and analysis of imagery from drones.And in October, Google executives declined to even bid on another artificial intelligence project at the Pentagon valued at as much as $10 billion.These protests speak to the newfound power of employees, said Pedro Domingos, a professor of computer science at the University of Washington and the author of “The Master Algorithm: How the Quest for the Ultimate Learning Machine Will Remake Our World.”“Employees of tech companies, like Google and Microsoft, have an extraordinary amount of power, which is much different than it was 50 years ago,” he said, adding that technology companies were major players in both World War II and the Cold War. “Often companies want to do things, but then they have to backtrack because they don’t want to displace employees.”Mr. Carter was supportive of that kind of employee involvement in his conversation with Kevin Roose, a reporter for The Times. “It’s a fair thing to challenge your leaders,” Mr. Carter said. “That’s true for troops, and it’s true for employees at a tech company.”But, he said, “I find a lot of things more objectionable than helping your country protect you.”That’s a sentiment echoed by the president of Microsoft, Brad Smith. In October, Mr. Smith wrote his employees  a public note on the Microsoft blog regarding defense projects and collaboration with the United States government.“First, we believe in the strong defense of the United States, and we want the people who defend it to have access to the nation’s best technology, including from Microsoft,” he wrote. “We are not going to withdraw from the future. In the most positive way possible, we are going to work to help shape it.”But at the New Work Summit, he also shared some instances in which he was uncomfortable working with the government when he had ethical and technological misgivings.“We’re very excited about facial recognition technology, but we also have concerns,” he said, referencing a partnership he declined to enter with a local police force. “This is a space where there’s been well-documented cases of bias, invasion of privacy and the potential for fundamental democratic freedoms to be placed at risk.”The way forward has to be in the hands of technology companies like Microsoft and Google and of the United States government, Mr. Carter said. But collaboration is more important now than ever.“Technology and public purpose is the issue of our time,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn KennyJudy Wood is a real-life lawyer who — after moving to California and getting a job with an immigration law firm — discovered a passion that, by this film’s telling, led her to a case that changed asylum policies in the United States. Directed by Sean Hanish from a script by Dmitry Portnoy, “Saint Judy” begins by underscoring the title character’s resourcefulness, then playing up her pluckiness and single-mom status.These latter components recall “Erin Brockovich,” the acclaimed fact-based drama of 2000 that starred Julia Roberts. Judy also has a crusty boss, Ray Hernandez (Alfred Molina), a soured one-time idealist unimpressed with Judy’s enthusiasm for a particular subject: Asefa, an Afghan woman in a detention center, who is so drugged up by her keepers as to be practically catatonic.Judy (Michelle Monaghan) wants to wean Asefa off her meds, learn her story and make a case for asylum. Ray just wants papers processed and bills paid, so he fires Judy. Judy starts her own firm, stumbles upon an intern who happens to own a Porsche (good for fast rides to and from detention centers) and gets busy.Monaghan herself is a plucky and resourceful performer. It’s nice to see her in a movie in which she has more to do than parachute in and evince concern for Tom Cruise, as she’s been doing in the last 10 or 20 “Mission Impossible” pictures. But while the viewer can intuit that Hanish has a strong clear story to tell, the director too often tricks things up with noncredible flashbacks, fatty getting-from-one-place-to-another montages scored to anthemic pop and other extraneous matter. This diffuses what could have been a more engaging and perhaps powerful movie.Movie data powered by IMDb.comRated PG-13 for language and themes. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — For months, President Trump has been railing about the urgent need for a wall to protect against what he calls “an invasion” of illegal immigrants flooding across the southwestern border. But he has also been delivering another message: “We need workers,” he told a group of activists recently.In other words, he wants more immigrants.“I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally,” Mr. Trump ad-libbed last month during his State of the Union address.Comments like those from the president have ignited furious criticism from his hard-line, anti-immigrant supporters who accuse him of caving to demands for cheap foreign labor from corporations, establishment Republicans and big donors while abandoning his election promise to protect his working-class supporters from the effects of globalism.“This is clearly a betrayal of what immigration hawks hoped the Trump administration would be for,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates cutting legal immigration by more than half. He warned that Mr. Trump was in danger of being “not even that different from a conventional Republican.”Breitbart News, a conservative website that promotes anti-immigrant messaging, published on Thursday the latest in a series of articles attacking Mr. Trump for catering to big business at the expense of the Americans who put him in the Oval Office. “Trump Requests ‘More’ Foreign Workers as Southern Border Gets Overrun,” the site blared on its home page.“That Mr. Trump would advance the interests of the global elite ahead of our citizens would be a tragic reversal on any day,” Lou Dobbs, the Fox Business Network host, said in a televised rant against the president on Wednesday evening. “The White House has simply lost its way.”Corporations and influential corporate conservatives such as Charles G. Koch and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have long urged the president to help them recruit the talent they need by expanding the number of workers who can enter the United States from other countries.That has become more urgent as the economy has improved and as declining unemployment has made it harder for companies to find workers. To assuage their concerns, Mr. Trump has increasingly tailored his immigration talking points to cater to the needs of business executives like those who attended a business round table on Wednesday at the White House.“We’re going to have a lot of people coming into the country. We want a lot of people coming in. And we need it,” Mr. Trump said as he sat next to Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, and other executives. “We want to have the companies grow, and the only way they’re going to grow is if we give them the workers, and the only way we’re going to have the workers is to do exactly what we’re doing.”But that message runs counter to the hard-line immigration image that Mr. Trump has carefully nurtured — most recently by shutting the government down for 35 days in a failed attempt to pressure Congress to fund a wall on the Mexican border.Mr. Trump won the White House in no small part by embracing anti-immigrant messaging that tapped into the economic fears of blue-collar workers upset about losing their jobs to foreign workers. Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, he attacked undocumented immigrants as “rapists and murderers” and called for a “big, beautiful wall” along the border with Mexico.Since becoming president, Mr. Trump has aggressively sought to crack down on illegal border crossings, increase deportations, cut the number of refugees allowed into the United States and make it harder for migrants to claim asylum. He has complained about drug dealers, gangs and members of Central American caravans pouring across the border. And last summer, his administration separated thousands of migrant children from their parents in an effort to deter Central American families from trying to seek refuge in the United States.The harsh record — and comments by Mr. Trump that disparaged African nations in vulgar terms and suggested that Haitian immigrants “all have AIDS” — has earned him the enmity of Democrats and immigration activists, who call him a racist president.It is unclear whether Mr. Trump will follow through on his recent, pro-business messaging. Many of the president’s aides — including Stephen Miller, his top immigration adviser in the White House — agree with the hard-line activists about the need to lower legal immigration.In 2017, Mr. Trump endorsed the Raise Act, a Republican Senate bill that would reduce legal immigration by as much as 50 percent. And the administration is currently considering a proposal to cut immigration by denying work authorizations, known as H-4 permits, to almost 100,000 spouses of immigrants who are brought in by companies to work legally in the United States.But even so, some of the nation’s most hard-line anti-immigration activists have become increasingly nervous that Mr. Trump might waver on their primary concern — the need to shrink the number of immigrants who enter the United States each year, currently 1.1 million.They argue that tight labor markets make it exactly the wrong time to allow more foreign workers to compete with Americans. Chris Chmielenski, the deputy director of NumbersUSA, which lobbies for lower legal immigration, said companies should be pressured to hire more Americans instead.“Anything we do now to bring in more foreign workers could actually reverse some of the economic gains over the last four years,” Mr. Chmielenski said. “We’re absolutely concerned. We feel this isn’t how he ran on the issue.”Last week, in an effort to communicate that message directly to Mr. Trump, NumbersUSA began airing an ad on Fox News Channel in the hopes that the president would get the message that his supporters do not want to let in more than one million immigrants each year.“The majority of voters say the number should be cut to 500,000 or less,” the ad said. “Americans want less immigration.”Mr. Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said that companies that no longer have access to foreign workers would have no choice but to turn to Americans who are still struggling to find work: people with disabilities, teenagers, older people and even former convicts.He also said that modest increases in wages for workers would evaporate if companies were allowed to simply tap an unlimited pool of lower-paid workers from other countries.“If you want wages to go up,” Mr. Krikorian said, “you don’t import more foreign labor.”Business groups dispute that analysis. They argue that immigration expands the amount of business activity in the United States, adding jobs and increasing wages for the vast majority of American workers.“Our country has benefited tremendously from welcoming people who have contributed to our economy, our communities, across the board,” said James Davis, a spokesman for the Koch network. “We want to welcome in everyone who wants to contribute to our society. We want to see more legal immigration.”Todd Schulte, the president of FWD.us, a pro-immigration advocacy group that started with backing from Mark Zuckerberg, a founder of Facebook, said that “immigrants and immigration increase economic growth, they increase economic productivity and they increase wages for the overwhelming number of native-born Americans.”Mr. Schulte, whose group has been highly critical of Mr. Trump’s anti-immigrant messaging and policies, welcomed the president’s recognition that legal immigration is a positive thing for the United States’ economy.But he cautioned that Mr. Trump must be measured by his actions, not his words. He called on the president to halt the effort to deny the H-4 work permits to immigrant spouses.“He should stop trying to revoke the H-4 rule,” Mr. Schulte said. “Increasing legal immigration would help native-born Americans. Unfortunately, the record has been one bent on cutting overall immigration levels.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Emily S. RuebImmigrant rights advocates and organizers protesting the Trump administration’s policies celebrated a victory this week after JPMorgan Chase & Company said it would no longer finance private operators of prisons and detention centers.As the administration has stepped up efforts to detain undocumented migrants, privately run prisons have become the government’s default detention centers for them, despite reports questioning the facilities’ safety. In addition to securing lucrative government contracts, these private companies have also borrowed money from large banks.A spokesman for JPMorgan Chase & Company, Andrew Gray, said on Tuesday the company had “a robust and well established process to evaluate the sectors that we serve.”“As part of this process,” he said, “we will no longer bank the private prison industry.”Mr. Gray did not immediately respond to a question about whether the decision was related to public pressure.Last year, two of the country’s largest private prison companies, CoreCivic and GEO Group, borrowed about $1.8 billion from several banks, including JPMorgan Chase, Matthew Toole, deals intelligence director at Refinitiv, said on Wednesday. Prison finance represents a small portion of the bank’s overall business, according to Reuters.While facilities operated by private companies house about 9 percent of the country’s prison population, they hold about three-quarters of immigrant detainees.Ana Maria Archila is the co-executive director for the Center for Popular Democracy, a national network of community organizations and individuals that has organized public protests at the bank’s headquarters, at annual meetings and outside the bank’s chief executive’s home in Manhattan.In an interview on Tuesday, she said the bank became a focus for its role in profiting from “the caging of humans,” which she described as a “morally bankrupt act.”“I am reminded that when we dare to protest, even when it seems impossible, that we actually lift up the veil on things that were not visible,” said Ms. Archila.Ms. Archila said the protests had been part of a broader effort by activists to call out corporate entities who they see as “legitimizing” the Trump administration’s policies, including the aggressive enforcement of immigration policies and the forcible separation of immigrant children from their parents at the border.While testifying to Congress on Wednesday, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, was defiant in the face of criticism over the department’s treatment of migrant families at the border, especially over the separation of children from their parents. Ms. Nielsen also encouraged lawmakers to pass legislation that would allow the indefinite detention of families and to more easily turn back claims of asylum by migrants from Central America.Representatives for the prison companies expressed frustration with JPMorgan Chase’s decision and what they saw as a weaponization of political will.“JP Morgan has served an important role in creating better conditions for inmates entrusted in our care,” Rodney E. King, a spokesman for CoreCivic, said on Tuesday.Mr. King added that the company’s immigration facilities did not provide housing for children who weren’t under the supervision of a parent.“These divestment efforts are politically motivated and based on a deliberate mischaracterization of our role as a long-standing service provider to the government,” he said.Emily Covington, a spokeswoman for the GEO Group, which operates dozens of about 130 dozens of correctional, detention and community re-entry sites in the United States, said Tuesday that the company had never managed facilities that house unaccompanied minors, including those who may have been separated from their parents.Several activists and politicians embraced the news, including New York City’s comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, who called the development “huge.”On Valentine’s Day this year, an immigrants rights group, Make the Road New York, sent a mariachi band and protesters with “Break Up With Prisons” signs to the townhouse of JPMorgan Chase & Company’s chief executive, Jamie Dimon.“If we come together and are diligent,” Javier H. Valdés, the group’s co-executive director, said Tuesday, to “build strong coalitions and work with powerful allies, we can actually win and help shift the narrative of enforcement in this country.”Ms. Archila, one of several protesters arrested on charges of blocking the entrance to the bank’s headquarters in Manhattan in May 2017, said targeting the financial services industry was a new frontier in the campaign for immigrants’ rights.“In some ways, the Trump era is one of fighting against incredible odds, to protect our communities, to protect ourselves, to protect each other,” she said.Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By John B. JudisTHE CASE FOR TRUMP By Victor Davis HansonI had expected that “The Case for Trump” would be an argument for why Donald Trump has been a good president, but it’s mostly about why Trump won in 2016, and its analysis, based on old polling and news clips, is interminable, marred by some cable-news-style exaggeration (Trump’s election foes are repeatedly characterized as being for “open borders”) and not particularly original. Victor Davis Hanson does, however, explain in passing and in the book’s concluding two chapters why he thinks Trump has been a good president, and this argument has some genuine merit and originality.In his preface, Hanson quotes approvingly Henry Kissinger’s judgment of Trump: “I think Trump may be one of those figures in history who appears from time to time to mark the end of an era and to force it to give up its old pretense.” That is true of Trump, as it was of Kissinger’s boss, Richard Nixon. Trump took office at a time when the early promise of globalization had foundered; when the purpose of the American alliance system was in doubt; when glowing projections of liberal democracy in Russia and China had proved dead wrong; and when America was mired in unwinnable wars.He spoke to these challenges in his campaign. His language was brutal, crude and sometimes racist or xenophobic, but in contrast to some of his opponents, he acknowledged the loss of more than two million manufacturing jobs to Chinese competition, the propensity of American companies to move abroad in search of lower wages and the continued difficulty of policing the country’s southern border. But the question is: What as president has he done about these things?Hanson, who is a retired classics professor and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, compares Trump to a tragic hero, who, crippled by “an innate flaw,” suffers a sorry end, but in the meantime does incredible good. Hanson acknowledges Trump’s “tweeting … feuding … unbridled and often vicious speech, even his fast and loose relationship with the truth.” He writes that “Trump likely will end in one of two fashions, both not particularly good: either spectacular but unacknowledged accomplishments followed by ostracism when he is out of office and no longer useful, or, less likely, a single term due to the eventual embarrassment of his beneficiaries, as if his utility is no longer worth the wages of his perceived crudity.”In line with the first of these alternatives, Hanson believes that what Trump “accomplished in his first 20 months in office was undeniably impressive.” Hanson credits Trump with ramping up the economy and lowering unemployment through tax cuts and deregulation. He praises Trump for forcing China and Europe into trade negotiations, pulling out of the Paris climate change and Iran nuclear agreements, moving the American embassy to Jerusalem (“Trump blew up the Israeli-Palestinian deadlock”) and “squeezing” North Korea through sanctions. “It was hard to see,” Hanson writes, “how U.S. relations with key allies or deterrent stances against enemies were not improved since the years of the Obama administration, at least in the sense that there was no more naïve Russian reset.”Except for detailing Trump’s success in boosting the economy, Hanson does not argue these points against obvious objections. Pulling out of Paris? Hanson at one point describes global warming as an “apparition,” but he cites no scientific evidence for this or any justification for abandoning international agreements to limit carbon emissions. Improved relations with allies? What about our European allies? Or Canada? As for the Iran deal, he claims that “most experts had known that the Obama-led Iran deal was unworkable and thus unsustainable,” but by my count the most prominent thought otherwise. I am not saying that Trump did nothing that was impressive — he has definitely gone beyond his predecessors in contesting China’s trade practices — but that many of the things Hanson cites as “undeniably impressive” need justification, at least if Hanson intended his book to be read by people who don’t already agree with its bald assertions.Like other political analysts, Hanson portrays the 2016 election as a contest between “two Americas” — an affluent coastal elite and a hinterland that had been flattened by globalization as “jobs and commerce were outsourced to lower-cost Asia and Latin America.” Trump was the voice of the hinterland. The “insidious decline of the Rust Belt by 2016 was the embryo of Donald Trump’s candidacy.” Of course, Trump also attracted conventional Republicans in Kansas or Arizona who simply saw him as preferable to Hillary Clinton, but the blue-collar voters in states like Wisconsin that had previously gone Democratic were the key to his victory. They liked what he said about trade and immigration and his defiance of political correctness. “Trump’s own uncouthness,” Hanson writes, “was in its own manner contextualized by his supporters as a long overdue pushback to the elite disdain and indeed hatred shown them.”Most of Hanson’s book was written before the 2018 election and does not seem to have been substantially revised in the light of the Republican defeats. He predicts that the Midwest, where Democrats did pretty well in 2018, “is insidiously becoming another red-state South.” In his epilogue, based on early estimates, Hanson discounts the 2018 results, writing that the Democrats “in strictly statistical terms had done historically not all that much better than most opposition parties in a president’s first term.” But since 1946, the average loss of the presidential party has been 25 not 40 seats, and in most of these instances, the economy was not booming. In 1998, when it was booming, Bill Clinton’s Democrats gained five seats. That suggests that of the two alternatives Hanson offers, the one that he deems the less likely, “a single term due to the eventual embarrassment of his beneficiaries,” may prove to be his tragic hero’s fate.John B. Judis is the author, most recently, of “The Nationalist Revival: Trade, Immigration, and the Revolt Against Globalization.”THE CASE FOR TRUMP By Victor Davis Hanson 391 pp. Basic Books. $30.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHow much does Nancy Pelosi have to worry about a left-center split?By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.There is a larger story behind the bitterness expressed inside the House Democratic caucus last week after 26 moderate Democratic members defied the leadership to support a Republican proposal to require reporting undocumented immigrants who try to buy guns to immigration authorities.Two key wings of the congressional Democratic Party have divergent political interests — on one hand the ascendant progressives led by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, many of whom have proudly declared themselves democratic socialists, and on the other the band of moderates who flipped most of the 41 districts that went from red to blue in November.The progressives are committed to an ambitious and expensive set of proposals, including a Green New Deal and Medicare for All, policies they have promised to promote unrelentingly.This agenda, and the attention it gets, has put the fear of defeat in 2020 front and center in the minds of newly elected House moderates. They see their progressive colleagues shaping an image of a Democratic House leaning so far to the left that it endangers the future of the current House majority.A story published Feb. 24 by my Times colleagues Catie Edmondson and Emily Cochrane described the agony of the moderate wing.At a town hall last month in a suburb of Salt Lake City, Ben McAdams, one of the moderate freshman Democrats, faced constituents questioning him about the “socialism” and “anti-Semitism” they had read about. “How long do you intend to ride that train with those people?” one voter asked. Another wondered whether McAdams would be “corrupted” by his service in Congress.McAdams’ answer captured the bind he and other centrists find themselves in:“There have been some articles about this, a little bit of tension on the Democratic side: Are we going to veer to the far left or are we going to stay in the center? I don’t know where the Democratic Party will go, but I tell you what, I will stay in the center. People are going to have to take it or leave it.”The question for McAdams and others is, will such declarations of independence insulate them on Election Day? Some evidence suggests that they will not.Let’s first examine the specific issue that brought intraparty Democratic tension between moderates and progressives to a boil: a seemingly bland parliamentary gambit called a “motion to recommit” — known in Congressional jargon as an M.T.R.Under House rules, the motion to recommit is one of the few mechanisms granted to the out-of-power party to shape legislation.“Controlling the Congressional agenda really is the sine qua non of a successful majority party,” Sarah Binder, a political scientist at George Washington University and a senior fellow at Brookings, told me.If there is one thing that sets Nancy Pelosi apart from other Democratic speakers, it is her ability to maintain control of the Democratic majority on key votes.It is no wonder, then, that she was outraged when these 26 moderate Democrats supported a Republican motion to recommit on Feb. 27 — explicitly designed to thwart progressive Democrats who adamantly oppose reporting undocumented immigrants to authorities. To Pelosi, the motion was an aggressive attempt on the part of House Republicans to undermine her leadership, and moderate Democratic members who supported it were seeking political cover at her expense.“We are either a team or we’re not, and we have to make that decision,” she declared at the Democratic caucus meeting. “This is not a day at the beach. This is the Congress of the United States.”In recent decades, “the motion to recommit has been weaponized,” Tom Mann, a senior fellow at Brookings, wrote me by email. “Like almost every effort on the floor by the minority party in the face of majority control of the agenda in the majoritarian House, it is an electoral weapon used to divide and weaken the majority.”Jason Roberts, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina, provided a brief history of the motion in an email. “It was made into a minority right in 1909. It did not really become controversial until the 1970s. Before then, most bills were considered under open rules” that allowed anyone from either party to offer amendments. In the 1970s, Roberts explained, the Democratic majority “began using more restrictive rules that limited or closed off amending opportunities.” This left Republicans with only one alternative to force a vote on an amendment: the motion to recommit.Both parties have made considerable use of the motion when in the minority, but historical analysis demonstrates that it has been a far more effective tool for Republicans than for Democrats.From 1995 to 2006, according to Roberts, Democrats, then in the minority, used it 262 times — but successfully only 1.1 percent of the time. In contrast, from 2007 through 2010, Republicans, then in the minority, forced votes on 181 motions to recommit and won 21.5 percent. Then, from 2011 through 2018, the Democratic minority offered 380 motions to recommit and every one of them failed in the face of united Republican opposition.During the current session of Congress, Republicans successfully won approval of a motion to recommit on legislation requiring universal background checks on all gun sales, including those conducted privately and at gun shows.The motion — passed with the support of the 26 Democratic defectors who infuriated Pelosi — amended the legislation to require notification of Immigration and Customs Enforcement when an undocumented immigrant fails a background check.Almost all of the 26 Democrats who joined Republicans to support the motion represent moderate constituencies, many of which had, until recently, been held by Republicans. Twenty three are on the 2020 National Republican Congressional Committee target list.There are two key factors that explain why Republicans in the House have been far more successful than Democrats in using the motion to recommit to divide the opposition.The first is that the concentration of Democratic voters in urban districts means that in order to win and maintain a House majority, Democrats must be victorious in highly competitive districts, many of which tilt to the right.These Democrats, in turn, are the ones who are the most cross-pressured between loyalty to the leadership and fear of losing support from center-right constituents.“There are more Democrats representing Republican-leaning districts than there are Republicans representing Democratic-leaning districts,” Frances Lee, a political scientist at the University of Maryland, wrote me in an email.In 2018, she continued, “Democrats carried a larger share of districts where members have to be careful not to antagonize their Republican-leaning constituents.”The second reason Republicans rarely provide even token support for Democratic motions to recommit is straightforward: a vast array of local and national conservative media is more than willing to denounce a turncoat. And anyone viewed as disloyal to the Republican Party is likely to face a primary challenger.Matthew Green, a political scientist at Catholic University, has studied the use of motions to recommit and describes the partisan difference as follows:“First, Democrats are more ideologically diverse than Republicans. Second, Democratic Party leaders are more divided on strategy than Republicans.”This is a serious problem, Green continued, “especially if Democrats want to maintain their control of the legislative agenda and keep peace in the family.”In the past, moderate and conservative Democrats sought to separate themselves from the more liberal national party by building a personal brand that their local voters would recognize. This worked when Tip O’Neill’s famous adage, “All politics is local,” was an effective principle in congressional elections.“Old-timers like me remember the 40-year span during which Democrats maintained control of the House through a coalition of liberals, moderates and even a few conservatives,” Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, recalled in an email. “They did so by tolerating defections if that was the price of re-election: ‘Vote your district first’.” Liberals still “have to be reminded that there are simply not enough liberals out there to form a majority,” Jacobson added.The problem now is that the politics of congressional elections are no longer local. In the years since O’Neill retired as speaker in 1987, American politics have become nationalized.If a conservative or moderate Democrat is running in a Republican-leaning district, he or she must persuade a segment of the electorate to split their tickets, to vote Republican for president, for example, and vote Democrat for the House.The reality is that split ticket voting is steadily disappearing as more and more voters cast uniformly partisan ballots.The accompanying chart, a version of which appeared in a paper by Alan Abramowitz and Steven Webster, political scientists at Emory and Washington University in St. Louis, “Negative Partisanship: Why Americans Dislike Parties But Behave Like Rabid Partisans,” demonstrates this trend.It shows that the percentage of voters splitting their tickets has fallen from 41.3 percent in 1980 to just over 14.3 percent in 2016.Percentage who voted straight ticket vs. split in presidential election years.100% OF VOTERS86%85%Straightticket806059%41%40Splitticket2015%14%’52’60’68’76’84’92’00’08’16100% OF VOTERS86%85%Straight ticket806059%41%40Split ticket2015%14%’52’60’68’76’84’92’00’08’16By The New York Times | Source: Steven W. Webster, Washington University in St. LouisThe result is that the number of Democrats and Republicans representing districts that lean to the opposite party has fallen from 132 in 1974 to fewer than 23 in 2018, as the second chart shows. (A version of this chart originally illustrated in a paper by Gary Jacobson, “Donald Trump and the 2018 Midterm Elections.”)Number of House candidates who won in districts that lean toward the opposite party. Data for 1962 and 1966 not available.120HOUSE SEATS90No Republicans won in Democratic-leaning districts in the last election.60Democrats30Republicans'52'60'70'80'90'00'10'18120HOUSE SEATS90No Republicans won in Democratic-leaning districts in the last election.60Democrats30Republicans'52'60'70'80'90'00'10'18By The New York Times | Source: Gary C. Jacobson, University of California, San DiegoThe near elimination of cross-party districts has, in turn, been particularly harmful to Democrats, who held roughly 114 of these districts in 1974, but only 23 in 2018.More specifically, these trends point to the consistent re-election difficulties faced by both Democrats and Republicans who are swept into office during wave elections like 1994, 2010 and 2014 (Republican) and 2006 and 2018 (Democratic). Their prospects are governed by the accounting principle “last in, first out.”All of which leads to the very real problem facing the House Democratic Majority. Tom Mann puts it this way:The nationalization of politics, the rise of intense negative partisanship, and the demise of split-ticket voting mean that the electoral fate of Democrats representing marginal districts now depends much more on the party brand than the candidate brand.E. J. Dionne, Jr., my longtime colleague at The Washington Post, wrote earlier this week that House Democrats will eventually resolve the problem of Republican motions to recommitby working out a better disciplined system of granting a limited number of “free passes" on especially tough votes while preventing wholesale defections.In Mann’s view, efforts by moderate Democrats to create an identity separate from their party by voting against their leadership will likely prove futile, because “Republicans will always attack them as liberals however they vote on these gotcha procedural motions.” In that light, maintaining party cohesion becomes more important:The keys to holding and increasing their 2018 gains in 2020 lies in the relative standing and unity of their party relative to Trump and his Republican enablers and the nomination of a presidential candidate who can keep the enthusiasm of the resistance alive and not scare away weak partisans and independents with outlandish policy proposals.Frances Lee raised another problem for moderate Democrats going into the 2020 elections:The resurgent far left of the party has received media attention out of proportion to its share of the party. The reason Democrats have a majority in the 116th Congress is that they carried so many suburban seats. These suburban members are not going to be blazing the trail for social democracy! But they get very little national media attention compared to the more ideologically strident members.David Hopkins, a political scientist at Boston College, shares Lee’s view:We’re also in a moment when a fair amount of news coverage is suggesting to the American public that the Democratic Party is in the midst of a socialist revolution that is pulling it sharply to the ideological left. The truth is that most newly-elected Democrats in Congress resemble Mikie Sherrill and Abigail Spanberger much more than they do Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez or Rashida Tlaib, but that isn’t the message that reporters and commentators are currently transmitting to their readers and viewers.Both Sherrill and Spanberger are moderates.A report by the centrist Democratic think tank Third Way demonstrates the crucial role moderate Democrats played in the 2018 takeover of the House.Third Way examined the Democratic victors in seats that had previously been held by Republicans — the victories that gave Democrats the majority — and found that none of them were part of or endorsed by the progressive mobilization led by the Justice Democrats, Brand New Congress and Our Revolution. In contrast, 33 of the House candidates endorsed by the moderate New Dem PAC won in districts that had been represented by Republicans.The Third Way report, in combination with the comments from Mann, Lee and Hopkins, suggests that House Democratic strategists — and Democrats generally — should find ways to counter the voices on the party’s left. Such an effort, however, could easily result in the alienation of the progressive wing that has brought grass roots energy to the fore, energy that would be critical to a 2020 Democratic presidential victory, as well as to House or Senate victories in battleground states across the county.The reality is that the Democratic Party is a diverse entity, racially, ethnically and ideologically. It is burdened — some would say blessed — with the problems of varied, often conflicting, interests. The struggle to come to terms with these tensions is constant and inescapable. Even shared hostility to President Trump and his Republican Party will not paper over the conflicts.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanLOS ANGELES — Creating yet another roadblock to the Trump administration’s efforts to deport ineligible migrants, a federal appeals court ruled on Thursday that immigration authorities can no longer swiftly deport asylum seekers who fail an initial screening, opening the door for thousands of migrants a year to get another shot in the federal courts to win asylum in the United States.The ruling broadens constitutional protections for undocumented immigrants at the border and opens a new legal gateway for some of them to appeal for permission to stay in the country, even when an asylum officer and an immigration judge have made a determination that they do not have a credible fear of persecution in their homeland.“The historical and practical importance of this ruling cannot be overstated,” said Lee Gelernt, deputy director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s Immigrants’ Rights Project, who argued the appeal on behalf of a Sri Lankan migrant who had been turned away at California’s border with Mexico in 2017. He said the ruling “reaffirms the Constitution’s foundational principle that individuals deprived of their liberty must have access to a federal court.”After dropping precipitously over five decades, the number of migrants intercepted at the southern border — the key indicator of how many undocumented people are entering the United States — is soaring again, driven by an influx of families from Central America fleeing violence and poverty. Immigration authorities received more than 99,000 requests for asylum interviews during the 2018 fiscal year, including more than 54,000 submitted at the southwest border.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]President Trump has said that migrants are exploiting the asylum system by making baseless and fraudulent claims in order to remain in the United States, and his administration has taken a number of steps to make the process harder, including narrowing the grounds for winning asylum, limiting the number of asylum seekers who can be processed at the border each day and requiring some applicants to wait in Mexico while their cases make their way through the courts.In 2016, the most recent year for which data is available, an estimated 7,200 migrants were denied permission to apply for asylum after their initial interviews and were placed in expedited deportation proceedings. An analysis by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University found that in June 2018, only 15 percent of initial asylum reviews found that the asylum seeker had a credible fear of persecution, about half the proportion that had prevailed a year earlier.Thursday’s court decision will most likely send that trend in the other direction, legal analysts said.“This is a historic decision,” said Stephen Yale-Loehr, an immigration scholar at Cornell Law School. “But the government will surely appeal this to the Supreme Court.”The opinion, from the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, extends constitutional habeas corpus guarantees to those applying for asylum at the border and provides that they can seek a hearing in the federal courts before being summarily deported — though the court did not specify what standards the courts must use to evaluate such petitions.The ruling applies to asylum seekers in the nine western states included in the court’s jurisdiction and, because it conflicts with an earlier ruling rejecting such legal protections in the Third Circuit, the issue is likely to be resolved ultimately by the Supreme Court. In the meantime, legal analysts said, the court’s decision is likely to have sweeping implications for immigration deterrence efforts by enabling thousands to remain in the country while they seek the court review.Under current procedure, every migrant who arrives at the border and expresses a fear of persecution in his or her homeland is referred for an interview with an asylum officer. Those who succeed in convincing the officer that they have a credible fear are allowed to enter the country and proceed with their asylum cases in the immigration courts. Those who don’t can request a review by an immigration judge, but it is usually cursory and favorable decisions are rare. There is usually no access to a lawyer, and no opportunity to challenge the decision; deportation quickly ensues.In the case before the appeals court, Vijayakumar Thuraissigiam, a member of Sri Lanka’s Tamil ethnic minority, was arrested about 25 yards north of the border near San Ysidro, Calif., and told an asylum officer that he was fearful of returning to his homeland. The officer found no credible fear, and that finding was upheld by a supervisor and an immigration judge.Mr. Thuraissigiam was in deportation proceedings when he filed a habeas corpus petition in the federal court. He argued that the asylum officer had failed to elicit important background about his case, including that he had been detained and beaten by Sri Lankan army officers on two occasions, and at one point had been lowered into a well and nearly drowned. He also said there were communication problems between the translator and both the asylum officer and the immigration judge.As a result, his lawyers argued, he was deprived of “a meaningful right to apply for asylum.”A district court judge in Los Angeles rejected that argument, but the three-judge appeals court panel, sitting in San Francisco, held that even though an asylum seeker may lack the right to a full trial in immigration court, the Constitution requires a more complete review than what immigration law currently provides.At its “historical core,” said the 48-page opinion written by Judge A. Wallace Tashima, “the writ of habeas corpus has served as a means of reviewing the legality of executive detention, and it is in that context that its protections have been strongest.”An earlier version of this article listed five states in the 9th Circuit’s jurisdiction. There are nine states, plus additional territories.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zolan Kanno-Youngs and Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, on Wednesday tersely defended a now-defunct Trump administration practice of separating migrant children from their families at the border, sidestepping whether she supported it as a way to deter illegal immigration.In tense exchanges with House Democrats, Ms. Nielsen instead implored Congress to confront what she called a “humanitarian catastrophe” on the southern border by changing laws to crack down on illegal border crossings.She also said the Trump administration’s family separation practice was similar to those of previous presidents — even if only sporadically enforced in earlier cases.“It was a policy by this administration that only ended when there were pictures of little kids in cages that had been ripped away from their parents,” Representative Kathleen Rice, Democrat of New York, told Ms. Nielsen during a hearing of the House Homeland Security Committee.[Update: Kirstjen Nielsen out as Trump’s homeland security secretary.]Ms. Nielsen replied that Ms. Rice mischaracterized the administration’s enforcement.“That’s a policy,” Ms. Rice said. “You should admit it.”Ms. Nielsen noted that parents are generally separated from their children when they go to jail for illegal activities. But “that wasn’t the point” of the immigration policy, she said.“The point was to increase prosecutions for those breaking the law,” she added.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]The hearing was Ms. Nielsen’s first since Democrats took control of the House this year. She backed President Trump’s request to declare a national emergency at the border — which would give him access to funding to build a border wall — and cited new data from her department showing that the number of immigrants entering the United States illegally had doubled from a year ago.Immigration officials are on track to apprehend one million people crossing the southern border this year, Ms. Nielsen said.“This is not a manufactured crisis,” Ms. Nielsen said. “This is truly an emergency.”Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, later accused Democrats of refusing to acknowledge a crisis at the border. She also chastised Senate Republicans who did not support the president’s emergency declaration.“If you had done what you were elected to do on the front end, then the president would not have to fix the problem on his own through a national emergency,” Ms. Sanders said.Some Republicans at the House hearing said they supported building a wall along the border.Representative Daniel Crenshaw, Republican of Texas, acknowledged the concerns about family separations but said physical barriers were crucial to securing the long stretches of land between ports of entry.Mr. Crenshaw said he now doubted that “we all value the rule of law and value the ability to manage our border effectively” — a view he admitted was cynical.The Department of Homeland Security has opened three investigations into the Trump administration’s immigration policies, the agency’s acting inspector general, John V. Kelly, said in a separate hearing on Wednesday.Mr. Kelly said one investigation is looking into the department’s systems for tracking migrant children separated from their families; another is examining whether asylum-seeking families are being separated at the border.Department investigators were also reviewing whether parents facing deportation were given the option of bringing their children back home with them. In the hearing with Ms. Nielsen, Ms. Rice asked whether every relative facing deportation was, in fact, allowed to do so.“To the best of my knowledge, every parent was afforded that option,” Ms. Nielsen said.In the past, most undocumented immigrants entering the United States from Mexico were single men looking for work. But over the past year, the number of migrants traveling together as a family has soared — a point that Ms. Nielsen sought to underscore.Officials have said migrants — and the smugglers who exploit them — know they are unlikely to be detained if they travel with a child.Under a court order, the government is prohibited from keeping children in holding facilities at the border for more than 72 hours. Children must either be transferred to immigration detention facilities suitable for minors, or be released.The government has allowed thousands of detained migrants to go free each week because it lacks enough beds to hold them in family detention facilities. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a branch of Ms. Nielsen’s department, can accommodate only 3,326 parents and children in its three residential family centers.Democrats also criticized Ms. Nielsen for not adequately keeping track of migrant children who were separated from their parents last year.“You let kids be separated without tracking them. Do you know how outrageous that is, Madam Secretary?” said Representative Nanette Barragán, Democrat of California. “You have no feeling, no compassion, no empathy here.”Ms. Nielsen did not respond.The practice, part of a “zero tolerance” immigration policy that drew swift condemnation after it was publicly announced last spring, quickly became a symbol of the president’s crackdown on illegal immigration. At the time, Ms. Nielsen repeatedly denied that her department had a policy of routinely separating migrant children from their parents at the border, despite mounting evidence that thousands of families had been broken apart.During a news conference in June at the White House, she said she was offended by accusations that she would authorize separating children from their parents to send a message of deterrence. But the department continued to separate families until Mr. Trump, facing enormous public pressure, signed an executive order meant to end the policy.Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and the committee’s chairman, said he had requested documents on the treatment of asylum seekers at the border and family separations. After Wednesday’s hearing, Mr. Thompson told reporters that he expected that information within a week and was prepared to use subpoena powers as a “last resort.”“The secretary can choose whether to be complicit in this administration’s misinformation campaign,” Mr. Thompson said, “or she can correct the record.”For much of her tenure, Ms. Nielsen has been the subject of Mr. Trump’s ire over illegal immigration and border security.Mr. Trump berated her privately for not doing enough to stop illegal immigration and accelerate construction of a wall along the border with Mexico. The president grew repeatedly angry with Ms. Nielsen for telling him that his ideas to stop immigration would be illegal or improper.By year’s end, reports were rampant that Mr. Trump wanted to fire Ms. Nielsen, but her credibility with the president has since improved. During the government’s 35-day shutdown over funding for the president’s border wall, Ms. Nielsen was a fierce advocate for the wall.And on Wednesday morning, Ms. Nielsen made clear she would not stray far from the president’s anti-immigrant language.“We face a crisis — a real, serious and sustained crisis at our borders,” Ms. Nielsen said.AdvertisementCreditCreditDaniel Brenner for The New York TimesSupported byBy Julie TurkewitzPhotographs by Daniel BrennerDENVER — Just hours stood between Jorge Zaldivar and his meeting with immigration officials, and so once again his family gathered to say goodbye.Nearly a million people in the United States have received deportation orders but have managed to stay in the country anyway, often hanging on through postponements granted to them at check-ins with immigration officials. For years, those appointments were largely routine, and most people went in expecting to receive another temporary reprieve.That changed when the Trump administration said it would expand deportation priorities to include anyone who had crossed the border illegally. And in the last two years, in households across the country, the dinner before a check-in has turned into a grim ritual, with families never sure whether or not this meal is the last they share together.[Read about a mother and daughter who were seeking asylum — they both have H.I.V. but only one was allowed entry.]The Zaldivar children — Francysco, 8, Aanahny, 10, Dyego, 14, Yolanda, 20, and Josefyna, 23 — all United States citizens, have lived in a cycle of check-ins and court dates for most of their lives. Their father crossed into the country illegally in 1997 and has been trying to gain legal residency through his wife, Christina, also a citizen, for more than a decade.That has failed, and the Zaldivars said goodbye to their father on June 7, 2017, on July 5, 2017, and on Jan. 10, 2018, and then four more times last year. In late February, The New York Times followed them on the night before Mr. Zaldivar’s latest immigration appointment.Ms. Zaldivar, 39, who is of Navajo and Southern Ute descent, never expected to be in this position. She married her husband in 2005, when she was a single mother of three. At the time, it did not occur to her to think much about his immigration status.“You don’t fall in love and say: ‘Hi, nice to meet you, do you have papers?’” she said. “I didn’t care if he had papers or not. He treated me right after an abusive marriage.”Mostly, she said, she experiences guilt and anger over what all this has done to her children. Her oldest daughter skipped college to help pay her father’s legal fees. Her middle son has started lashing out at teachers, unable to explain to them what is happening at home.At dinner, the house filled with relatives.When everyone had a plate of chicken and rice, Ms. Zaldivar called for silence.She had received an email earlier that day from a congressional aide helping with their case. The aide had heard from immigration officials.“Dad’s stay was denied,” Ms. Zaldivar said, looking at her children. “Tomorrow when he goes in to check in, they’re not going to let him come out.”In the morning, at the breakfast table, Ms. Zaldivar hauled out a blue tote she had prepared for her husband, with a list of medications and hotel-size toiletries, meant to help him if or when he arrived in Mexico.Mr. Zaldivar took out his wallet and removed his driver’s license, his worker’s permit and a piece of paper bearing his social security number.He handed them to his wife for safekeeping, and slipped $100 into the billfold.Then he went into his youngest daughter’s room, where he began to clean, packing her toys into the dollhouse, organizing the stacks of Girl Scout cookies.“I’m stressed,” he said. “I want to this to be over.”“Let’s go,” Ms. Zaldivar called.Mr. Zaldivar took the wheel of the family truck, and everyone climbed inside.Across town, on the yellowed grass outside the federal immigration building, a few activists had arrived to show their support.Mr. Zaldivar’s wife took his arm.“Ready?” he said quietly.Together they crossed the road, Ms. Zaldivar gripping the blue tote, and then disappeared.His children watched.Then, not 20 minutes in, a shout went up from one of the activists.The Zaldivars, both of them, were walking out the building’s glass doors.Ms. Zaldivar approached her children, her voice unsteady. Her husband had been granted one more monthlong postponement, she said, but this time “he has to come back with a ticket — a bus ticket, a plane ticket, something showing he is going to exit in 30 days.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIn the past, undocumented immigrants were mostly single men from Mexico, but that’s no longer the case. A look at who is coming and what is driving them.By Miriam JordanPresident Trump has tried to halt the arrival of undocumented migrants by beefing up border security, limiting who qualifies for asylum and, for a while, separating migrant children from their parents at the border. However, figures released on Tuesday suggest that those measures are failing to deter tens of thousands of migrants from journeying over land to the United States.Indeed, after shriveling to the smallest total in five decades, the number of migrants intercepted at the southern border — the best indicator of how many undocumented people are entering the United States — is soaring again.Border authorities detained nearly twice as many migrants — 268,044 — in the first five months of the fiscal year that started in October than were detained in the same period the previous year.To understand what’s happening, it’s important to look at who is coming, what is driving them and how the answers to those questions have changed over the years. [Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]In the past, undocumented immigrants were overwhelmingly single men from Mexico who slipped into the country undetected to find work and send money home. But immigration from Mexico has plummeted in recent years. In fact, more Mexicans are leaving than arriving in the United States. Mexicans are less compelled to come because there are more opportunities in their own country and they have smaller families to support.Central American families have become the new face of undocumented immigration.In the first five months of the fiscal year that began in October, the Border Patrol detained 136,150 people traveling in families with children, compared with 107,212 during all of fiscal 2018.A trend toward family migration from Central America that began when Barack Obama was president has endured, after temporarily dipping during Mr. Trump’s first year in office. [More than 76,000 migrants cross in a month. Read about the “breaking points.”]Many Central Americans live in fear. El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala have among the world’s highest homicide rates. Arriving migrants report that they have faced extortion, and want to prevent their children from being recruited by street gangs.But murder rates in the Northern Triangle countries have been declining in recent years, and economic imperatives are believed to be the most important push factor for the majority of recent arrivals. More than 90 percent of the most recent migrants are from Guatemala, according to the newly released data. The majority hail from impoverished regions, including the Western highlands, where conflicts over land rights, environmental changes and depressed prices for crops like maize and coffee are undermining the ability of farmers to make a living.[Read about the treatment of detainees with medical conditions.]Migrants generally lack understanding of United States immigration law. But they appear to be informed about the basics.The majority know to request asylum at the border, either at an official port of entry or when they surrender to border agents shortly after sneaking into the country from Mexico.They know that they are unlikely to remain detained if they travel with a child and that they have a better shot at fending off deportation when they come with a child.By law, the government cannot keep migrant families in holding facilities at the border for more than 72 hours. It must either transfer them to an immigration detention facility suitable for children or release them. The government has been letting thousands of detained migrants go free each week because it lacks enough beds to hold them in family detention facilities. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s three residential family centers — two in southern Texas and one in Pennsylvania — can accommodate 3,326 parents and children.The largest share of migrants arrive in Texas, but there appears to be a growing number who are entering through remote areas of Arizona and New Mexico.In the spring of 2018, the Trump administration tried to discourage parents from traveling with a child by prosecuting everyone who crossed the border illegally, even those who were traveling with children — a policy known as zero tolerance. This resulted in children being removed from their parents and placed in shelters across the country.The policy drew widespread condemnation, prompting the president to halt the practice in late June. But Customs and Border Protection officials believe that the various legal rulings preventing families from being detained have helped solidify the message to smugglers, who roam villages offering to guide people to the United States, that adults who come with a child are protected from deportation.Whether they sneak into the country in remote areas or enter the country through a port of entry, most migrants are trying to petition for asylum.In 2008, just under 5,000 applicants claimed they had a credible fear of persecution, the first legal step toward obtaining asylum, to avoid being returned to their homeland. Last year, nearly 100,000 claimed a credible fear.The Trump administration contends that people are flooding the asylum system with invalid claims. In recent years, immigration judges have granted less than 20 percent of asylum requests, a proportion that is even lower for Central Americans.Many asylum seekers from Central America claim they have been victims of gangs, which is harder to prove than political and other types of persecution. Poverty is not among the grounds for receiving asylum.If they are denied, asylum seekers can be deported. But since many are released while their case is pending, some never return to court and evade deportation. Miriam Jordan is a national immigration correspondent. She reports from a grassroots perspective on the impact of immigration policy. She has been a reporter in Mexico, Israel, Hong Kong, India and Brazil.  @mirjordan • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam Jordan and Caitlin DickersonOAKLAND, Calif. — Nearly nine months after the Trump administration officially rescinded its policy of separating migrant families who have illegally crossed the border, more than 200 migrant children have been taken from parents and other relatives and placed in institutional care, with some spending months in shelters and foster homes thousands of miles away from their parents.The latest data reported to the federal judge monitoring one of the most controversial of President Trump’s immigration policies shows that 245 children have been removed from their families since the court ordered the government to halt routine separations under last spring’s “zero tolerance” border enforcement policy. Some of the new separations are being undertaken with no clear documentation to help track the children’s whereabouts.Images of crying mothers and children at the border last year prompted an intense backlash across party lines, with all four living former first ladies and Melania Trump expressing horror at the policy. But despite President Trump’s June 20 executive order rescinding it, the practice was never completely suspended.Under the original policy, most children were removed because parents who illegally crossed the border were subject to criminal prosecution. The recent separations have occurred largely because parents have been flagged for fraud, a communicable disease or past criminal history — in some cases relatively minor violations, years in the past, that ordinarily would not lead to the loss of parental custody.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The new separations are taking place amid an unprecedented influx of migrant families from across the southern border that has highlighted the failure of the Trump administration’s hard-line policies to deter them. The Border Patrol detained 76,103 migrants in February, an 11-year high for that month. Among those intercepted were about 40,000 members of families, two-thirds more than in January.In Congress last week, Democrats grilled Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, over the separation policy, citing research that has found that separations from parents can inflict long-term psychological harm on children.Family separations also sometimes occurred under the Obama administration, but only rarely and in extreme cases in which a child’s safety appeared to be at risk.Customs and Border Protection officials say the separations are legal under the parameters set by the court and are intended to protect children, who they say may be threatened by human trafficking or by adults pretending to be a parent to capitalize on the advantage that gives them under American immigration laws.“C.B.P. does not declare that a parent poses danger to a child arbitrarily or without merit,” the agency said in a statement. It said agents “will maintain family unity to the greatest extent operationally feasible,” separating children only in the presence of “a legal requirement” set out in written policy or “an articulable safety or security concern that requires separation.”But opposition to the new separations has been growing from both outside and inside the federal government. At the Health and Human Services Department’s Office of Refugee Resettlement, which oversees the care of separated children until they can be reunited with their families, some officials have tried to resist receiving children referred to the agency by the Border Patrol.According to an official who was not authorized to discuss government business and spoke on the condition of anonymity, staff members have in some cases raised questions with Border Patrol agents about separations with what appear to be little or no justification. In some of those cases, border agents have refused to provide additional information, the official said, or if additional documents were provided, they were sometimes redacted to the point of illegibility.The official, along with another staff member at the Department of Homeland Security, the Border Patrol’s parent agency, said that some separations were occurring with no formal notification to the refugee resettlement office. Both officials said they had been made aware of concerns about an apparent inconsistency in standards applied by border agents when determining whether a family should be separated.The failure to keep accurate records suggests that more children could have been separated than the 245 accounted for by Feb. 20 in official records.The New York Times reviewed several cases of children who have been separated since the policy was officially ended, and learned of many others through the lawyers who handled them. Some of the new separations, the review showed, occurred in families with a parent who had a drunken-driving conviction in the past, or a 20-year-old nonviolent robbery conviction. In one case, a parent had been convicted of possession of a small amount of marijuana.Donna Abbott, vice president for refugee and immigrant services at Bethany Christian Services, a contractor that accommodates migrant children in temporary foster homes until they can be reunited with family members, said most cases of family separations do not list detailed reasons, making it difficult to evaluate whether they were appropriate.For example, some files state only that the parent was suspected of having gang affiliations or a criminal history, without additional information. “Is it trespassing or is it murder?” Ms. Abbott said.In December, a mother traveling from El Salvador with her three children was arrested and put on a bus to an immigration detention facility in Arizona while her children, ages 5, 8 and 15, were sent to foster care in New York.The woman, Deisy Ramirez, 38, said it was nearly six weeks before she talked to her children.They were “devastated,” said Ms. Ramirez’s sister, Silvia Ramirez, who was trying to persuade the government to allow her to take the children to live with her in Seattle while her sister was in custody. “They couldn’t understand why they were separated,” she said.On March 1, Ms. Ramirez’s eldest daughter was transferred to a hospital after threatening to take her own life, Silvia Ramirez said, and she remained there even after her mother’s release from detention last week.“I never imagined this could happen,” Deisy Ramirez said on Friday, her voice breaking. “All I want is to hold my children and to be with them.”Her lawyer, Ricardo de Anda, said he had received no response to his formal request for a reason for the separation. He suspects it may be connected to the fact that Ms. Ramirez had been deported from the United States more than a decade ago. He sent government lawyers a series of emails, ultimately securing her release.On Saturday, the day after her release from the Arizona detention facility, Ms. Ramirez was preparing to fly to New York to reunite with her children.Border agents removed 3-year-old Ashley Ramos from her father after they were detained last month in Arizona. He was swiftly deported to Guatemala and the girl was sent to a shelter.The child’s mother, Silvia Maribel Ramos, who had been separated from the pair during their journey from Guatemala when Mexican police pulled her and other migrants off their bus for questioning, arrived in Arizona a few days later, only to learn from authorities that her child was gone.“They told me they had no idea where she was, that I would find out after being released,” said Ms. Ramos, who is staying with relatives in Oakland, Calif.The child was located nearly two weeks later, she said, after her husband contacted Guatemalan authorities back home. Now Ms. Ramos is struggling with the paperwork required to recover Ashley. “My daughter can’t understand. She just weeps and begs to be with us,” she said.In late January, Victor Antonio Marin was separated from his 4-year-old son, whose mother is deceased, after they were detained near Calexico, Calif. According to his lawyer, Bob Boyce, Mr. Marin had a 20-year-old nonviolent robbery conviction in the United States that did not involve the use of a weapon. He served time and was deported back to El Salvador.Now Mr. Marin remains locked up in an immigration detention center while his child is in a shelter in Texas.Ruben Garcia, who runs a network of migrant shelters in El Paso, said that immigration authorities this month dropped off a distraught 18-year-old woman from Guatemala.The woman said she had given birth less than a week earlier and had been separated from her baby. Child welfare authorities had come to the hospital to take the child, who was a United States citizen; immigration agents took the mother back to a detention cell where she waited for several days. The baby’s first two weeks were spent away from the mother, who finally regained custody after interventions from multiple legal-aid groups, Mr. Garcia said.Since Mr. Trump ended the family separations under “zero tolerance” on June 20, about 2,700 children have been reunited with their parents. Still, thousands more children who were separated before the policy officially went into effect have not been accounted for, according to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. The investigators cited the lack of an efficient tracking system.The American Civil Liberties Union requested that the government locate the families, and on Friday, Judge Dana M. Sabraw ruled that they should be included in the pending litigation over protecting and reuniting separated families.“The hallmark of a civilized society is measured by how it treats its people and those within its borders,” the judge wrote in his opinion.Some families affected by the earlier zero-tolerance separations continue to face repercussions.A 9-year-old Guatemalan boy named Byron Xol has been shuffled among four shelters since he was dragged away from his father at the border nine months ago, while the policy was still in place.After his father was deported to Guatemala, the boy’s parents decided that the child should remain in the United States for safety reasons. With the help of a lawyer, they designated an American family in Buda, Tex., to care for him.But authorities have refused to allow Byron to join the family, citing an anti-trafficking policy that bars a child from being released to a nonrelative sponsor unless the sponsor has a verifiable relationship with the child going back at least a year.Detentions and deportation proceedings have also resulted in family separations far from the border.Christy Swatzell, an immigration lawyer in Memphis, said that two of her clients who crossed the border without authorization and were released to await the outcome of their cases were told by Immigration and Customs Enforcement to leave their children at home ahead of their monthly check-in with the agency. When they showed up at the I.C.E. office, they were detained and transferred to an immigration facility in Louisiana.One of the clients, Francisca Yanes, 33, is the mother of a 6-year-old girl who is physically disabled. “I was in tears, telling them about my daughter. But it didn’t matter,” said Ms. Yanes, whose child, Paola, remained in the care of family members for the entire 45 days she was in detention.The Guatemalan migrant was released on a $7,500 bond set by the court after her lawyer filed a motion on her behalf. “What we are seeing is that families are being effectively separated,” said Ms. Swatzell. “Just not at the border anymore.”Miriam Jordan reported from Oakland, Calif., and Caitlin Dickerson reported from New York.AdvertisementA woman and her daughter flee persecution in Honduras. Despite identical circumstances, the mother is granted entry, while her daughter is deported. And there is little to be done about it.Susan, who is back in Honduras and living with a neighbor after being separated from her sister and mother and deported.CreditCreditSupported byBy Beth FertigPhotographs by Victor J. BlueEven after more than six months, Kirad wasn’t used to sharing a bed with her mother. She was now 17, and ever since they arrived in New York after fleeing Honduras, they were stuck in the same room.They were staying in a tiny bungalow in Far Rockaway, Queens, that belonged to Kirad’s aunt. The only common space was a kitchen just big enough to squeeze in a love seat and a small table. Every surface was covered with pots and pans, cereal boxes and bags of food.“We fight sometimes over the TV,” Kirad said, “because my mom wants to watch something and I want to watch something different so I go to my aunt’s room.”For the most part, they have made it work.As cramped as it is in this tiny room, Kirad had hoped to have one more family member sharing this space: her older sister, Susan. She and her mother last saw Susan in July, when they crossed the Mexican border into Eagle Pass, Tex. The family of three was seeking asylum.Kirad and her mother, Ana Batiz, were allowed to pursue their case in immigration court, and went on to New York. But Susan was not. She was sent back to Honduras by herself.“I’m sure my mother would sleep on the couch or on the floor or whatever for the three of us to be together,” Kirad said.“I have never been away from them,” Ms. Batiz said of her daughters. This is a story about the brutal math that asylum seekers face at the border today. In this case, a mother and a daughter with virtually identical circumstances try to immigrate to the United States. Each has an interview with an asylum officer that could alter their lives forever.[Read about a family’s experiences in the hours before the father of five children is deported.] One persuades her interviewer that returning to Honduras was too dangerous; she enters the country to pursue an asylum claim.The other, an 18-year-old, fails that same test. As a result, she is separated from her only family and sent back, alone, to an environment where she feels threatened every day.When Ana Batiz and her daughters arrived at the border, she did not even realize they had crossed illegally. She said she did not know there was an official point of entry at Eagle Pass, she said, so they waded across the dangerous waters of the Rio Grande with other migrants.Ms. Batiz left her small village on the Atlantic coast of Honduras with plans to seek asylum, because she was persecuted for having H.I.V. “I don’t think it’s right,” she said, “for someone to tell you, ‘You should die.’”The family did not join a caravan. She said they hitched rides with other Hondurans heading north. It all fell apart when they got to the Texas border. Ms. Batiz and her two daughters were taken to what immigrants call a hielera, Spanish for “icebox,” a processing center run by Customs and Border Protection.That night of their arrival at Eagle Pass, according to Kirad, border agents took Susan, along with about 10 others, all young men, out of the room. “They told my mother that they were going to take me out and bring me right back,” Susan recalled.But she didn’t return.Long before the Trump administration’s recent policy of separating migrant children from their parents, Customs and Border Protection agents have been taking children ages 18 and over away from their parents. This is because the agency considers them to be legal adults, who should be sent to adult detention centers instead of staying with families. With the current surge in families crossing the border, this means even more 18-year-olds could find themselves separated from their parents. But there’s a paradox here. Although Susan was considered an adult at the border, she would have been considered a child in the United States as an immigrant seeking asylum.That’s because older teens like Susan fall into conflicting categories under U.S. immigration policies. The Immigration and Nationality Act defines anyone under 21 and unmarried as a child. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services also uses this definition and allows children under 21 to accompany their parents to asylum interviews. These interviews are crucial because they determine whether a migrant can stay in the country and pursue their case in immigration court.As an adult at the border, Susan had been separated from her family, so she couldn’t attend her mother’s asylum interview. She would have to fend for herself.Until 2010, people with H.I.V. were actually banned from entering the United States. When that changed, people with H.I.V. could also seek asylum in the U.S. if they were persecuted for it in their home country. Ms. Batiz and her daughters made a strong case that they were. She has asked that we not use the last names of her daughters out of fear for their safety.In their small Honduran town, Ms. Batiz’s family was part of the Garifuna community, descendants of enslaved Africans and indigenous Central Americans. The Garifuna tend to be extremely poor, and they have the highest rate of H.I.V. transmissions in Honduras.Ms. Batiz said she learned she was infected only after Kirad was born. She felt ill and went to a doctor, who told her the news: She was H.I.V. positive and had been for years. Her boyfriend, who most likely infected her, left. “He abandoned us,” she said. He’s the father of her three youngest daughters (she has two older children from a previous relationship). She had the girls tested. Susan, the middle child, was H.I.V. positive too.Ms. Batiz turned to a nongovernmental organization in Honduras that helps people with H.I.V. She became an H.I.V. educator. Soon, Ms. Batiz was working for the organization, attending protests to demand more medicine. One time, she said, police used tear gas and hoses on demonstrators. She was also featured in a 2013 video by the Pulitzer Center about what it’s like to be Garifuna and living with H.I.V.Her descriptions are reminiscent of AIDS activists in the U.S. during the 1980s who were part of the protest movement Act Up. Ms. Batiz said this activity made her an easy target in Honduras. She was a black woman with H.I.V., protesting for better conditions, and living in a place where people are terrified of AIDS. “Sometimes I was walking down the street and some people would see me and say, ‘Here comes the one with SIDA,’” she said, using the Spanish word for AIDS. “It’s very difficult situation to be there as an activist.”Officially, Honduras has stronger protections for people with H.I.V. than some of its neighbors. But the reality, according to Amnesty International and the U.S. State Department, is that people with H.I.V. are routinely denied access to jobs, education and health services.“The women who are infected are considered to be dirty,” said Deborah Ottenheimer, a Manhattan-based gynecologist who does exams for women seeking asylum because of human rights abuses. She has met Honduran women with H.I.V. who experienced all types of persecution, including forced sterilization.“They can’t get jobs, they often are attacked. Their children — especially if their children are thought to be, not even known to be, but thought to be H.I.V. positive — will also be discriminated against. They won’t be allowed to go to school.”Ms. Batiz’s daughters suffered at school, especially Susan. “Everybody, all my classmates, knew about my mother and my sister, too,” Kirad recalled. She said they called Susan “sidosa,” a slur against people with AIDS.There were also vicious attacks. “They would take her to the bathroom and would put her head in the toilet,” Kirad said, adding that these were filthy toilets without modern plumbing.Kirad said she saw students push her sister’s head into a toilet on about five different occasions, and that she would try to fight the other kids in the bathroom. Susan didn’t want to tell their mother, but Kirad did. When Ms. Batiz confronted the school, she said the director behaved as though it was no big deal. At some point around 2016, things got so bad that she took both of her girls out of school and kept them at home.The next year, Ms. Batiz said her house was burned down under mysterious circumstances. No one was home at the time. She didn’t know who did it, and she didn’t contact the police because she was certain they wouldn’t investigate. But she said she knew it was arson because she smelled the gasoline. “I think they were trying to get me to leave,” she said.The family moved in with neighboring friends, but Ms. Batiz started making plans to take Kirad and Susan to stay with her sister in New York.When asylum officers conduct a credible fear interview, they ask basic questions about how a migrant was persecuted and what role the authorities played. The Trump Administration claims the bar is too low because most easily pass, even though less than a quarter actually wind up getting asylum. Migrants who pass the test can wait years for their asylum cases to go to immigration court, because of an enormous backlog. In the meantime they can qualify for working papers. The president has criticized this as “catch and release.”Ms. Batiz said her interview happened the same day she arrived at the “icebox.” She recalled the two officers who questioned her gasping when she told them how she faced discrimination for having H.I.V. “I think that’s why they took me out quickly,” she said.The next morning, Ms. Batiz and Kirad were released to go on to New York. They didn’t know what happened to Susan, only that she had been taken away hours earlier. Kirad said they asked people at the processing center but were told only that Susan was taken to a different place. “My mother started crying,” she recalled. With no additional information, they took a bus to San Antonio where they got assistance from a Catholic aid organization, which paid for them to fly to New York.Soon after arriving at her sister’s home in Far Rockaway, Ms. Batiz got a call from Susan. She was 1,900 miles away at an adult detention center in Pearsall, Tex., run by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. She was examined by a doctor and given H.I.V. medications. But it took three weeks for her to get her credible fear interview.During that waiting period, Susan said a doctor told her that the H.I.V. drugs she was given in Honduras were not working well. She said she was also under great distress, begging other detainees in her room to let her sleep on the bottom bunk because she was afraid of heights. She had never been away from her mother before and said she was scared of the women who worked at the detention center, claiming they said cruel things to her because she was black and from Honduras.The credible fear interview took place on Aug. 8, with an asylum officer speaking English in person and a Spanish interpreter on the phone. When we spoke in January, Susan recalled telling the officer about the persecution she suffered at school. She said she described how classmates would abuse her in the bathrooms. “They would put my head in the toilet and urinate on me.”The transcript of Susan’s credible fear interview does not include this graphic incident. Regardless, it shows that Susan clearly stated that she was threatened and discriminated against, and that students wanted to kill her. “Because I am H.I.V.-positive,” she said, “and because I am black.” She said students feared she would “contaminate” them.Susan also described an episode in which her classmates beat her legs with a stick so badly that she was taken to a hospital. There, she said, the nurses gave her “dirty looks” because they “discriminate against black girls.”Police officers spoke with Susan at the hospital. She said she told them about the attack, and that they helped her by talking to the school. When asked by the asylum officer how the police treated black people and those with H.I.V., Susan answered, “They treat them well.”The asylum officer found Susan’s overall account credible. But she made a distinction that prevented Susan from moving forward with her asylum case. She checked a box that said “credible fear of persecution NOT established.” She left unchecked all of the boxes designating asylum eligibility because of persecution. These are race, religion, political activity, nationality and membership in a particular social group. This last category could include people with H.I.V.A couple of immigration and asylum experts who viewed the transcript said Susan was rightfully rejected because she said the police were helpful. Stan Weber, an immigration lawyer in Brooklyn who previously worked for ICE, said he could see that argument, in part.Mr. Weber explained that the persecution Susan described was not from “a government actor or an agent of the government.” He added, “The parties that were inflicting the persecution or the threat of persecution were private actors.”In other words, Susan was being bullied by her classmates. Nonetheless, Mr. Weber is among several experts who believe the asylum officer was unfair to Susan, noting her youth, the possibility of a language barrier and her emotional state.Early in the transcript it notes “applicant is crying.” Shortly after, there’s another red flag.“Interpreter notes that the applicant doesn’t seem to connect terms in Spanish,” the transcript read, adding that the interpreter and applicant “might not be able to understand each other clearly.”Susan speaks both Spanish and Garifuna. She was asked if she preferred a Garifuna interpreter but she responded that she was fine continuing in Spanish. Mr. Weber said that should have given the asylum officer pause.“You have an 18-year-old child separated from her parent that doesn’t speak a primary language that you’re conversing in, that the interpreter’s indicated that there’s problems understanding, and she’s crying and she has a very stigmatized condition, H.I.V. positive,” he said. “The officer, I think, blew it.”He said the asylum officer also missed an obvious opportunity to ask about Susan’s mother, because Susan stated that they came together and that her mother had gone on to New York.Susan now claims the asylum officer pressured her to say the police were helpful. Within the transcript, she also said she was threatened at school by students about 20 times and never reported these incidents to the police “out of fear, because they told me they would hurt me more if I reported it.”Later in August, Susan asked an immigration judge to review the asylum officer’s decision. But she had no lawyer, and the hearing was conducted by video. The judge denied her appeal. Susan’s family then scraped up the money to hire Elizabeth Caballero, a lawyer in Texas, who asked U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services for a new credible fear interview. Despite additional written testimony from Susan’s mother and sister about her persecution, she was deported. Susan was put on a plane back to Honduras in November without any advance notice, Ms. Caballero said, giving her no chance to legally intervene. In her 12 years practicing immigration law, she said, only one other client was deported without any warning. She’s still angry about it.“Here we have somebody that can actually be considered part of a particular social group,” Ms. Caballero said. “And she got denied.”A spokeswoman with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services said it can’t comment on individual cases. But she noted the 2010 law that allowed people with H.I.V. to enter the country. She also said the agency reviews each case on its own merit, with decisions based on relevant laws and evidence.“They didn’t want her here,” Ms. Caballero concluded, adding she suspects it’s because Susan has H.I.V. “They’re just as ignorant as the people who discriminate against her over there, in her home country.”In Queens, Ms. Batiz describes feeling at ease without the discrimination she suffered in Honduras. But she constantly worries about Susan. In January, Ms. Batiz met with her lawyer, Cristina Velez, at the Jamaica office of Queens Legal Services. They sat at a small table in a sparsely furnished conference room and made a video call to Susan in Honduras, so Ms. Velez could learn more about what happened to prepare for Ms. Batiz’s asylum claim.Susan’s oval face filled the screen of her mother’s cellphone. Now 19, she is staying with the same friends who put her family up after the 2017 fire. The two-room house is crowded, with a bedroom where seven people are sleeping. It’s crammed with belongings, and the windows are covered by wooden shutters and fabric.Susan pointed the phone to show her mother and lawyer the bright blue Caribbean sky and the bed where she sleeps. A paralegal who is fluent in Spanish was translating for Ms. Velez and everyone wanted to know one thing: Is she safe?“I do not feel safe,” Susan said through the interpreter, her voice growing animated. When Ms. Velez asked why, she described people coming to the house and threatening her.“They wear ski masks on their head and they told me that they’re going to kill me if they see me alone, and why did I come back here? I should have stayed with my mother where I was.”Susan said it has happened about six times since she returned in November, and that they sometimes pointed guns at her. “They want to kill me because I have H.I.V.,” she said. She locks herself in the house when they come. She said she doesn’t know who they are, but speculated that the men could be members of the local gangs, so common in Honduras, who have threatened her family and others in the past for refusing to cooperate with them. Susan said she only goes out with a friend occasionally, or to take a taxi to the hospital once a month for her H.I.V. medicine.After listening to this account, Ms. Velez said that Ms. Batiz has a very strong case for asylum and that Susan would have, as well. She can’t understand the logic in separating the mother and daughter.“I haven’t seen a case in which a family member who is really still dependent on the parent and whose cases overlap so entirely be separated from the family unit and not permitted to make her case,” she said.Kirad is now starting over as a freshman at a public high school in Queens with a bilingual program. She has a backpack filled with notebooks for math, history, biology and English. She thinks Susan would love the high school, and wishes they could go together.But the odds are against Susan ever joining her sister. Because she failed to persuade an asylum officer of her credible fear, and her appeal to a judge was then denied, Susan can’t try seeking asylum again. Even if she were somehow able to make the trek by herself from Honduras to the border, she would face a different process for being allowed to stay in the country because of her prior removal. The bar for passing this test would be much higher, making that “a risky proposition” according to Ms. Velez, her mother’s lawyer.Now Susan’s only hope of coming to the U.S. lies with her mother’s case. If Ms. Batiz is granted asylum, she could bring her daughter here as a dependent. Her next court date is in May, but it’s just a procedural hearing. The immigration court in New York is so backlogged it could take another year or more for her trial.Speaking from Honduras, Susan said she’s not giving up hope. She hasn’t been able to go to school for about three years. But if she makes it to the U.S., she said, she wants to go to a technical school and become a nurse. “I want to keep studying and doing something with my life,” she said.José Olivares of WNYC contributed translation assistance and research, and Lidia Hernandez contributed translation assistance.Beth Fertig (@bethfertig) is a reporter for WNYC.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNot so long ago, the party had a clear platform. It no longer does.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.The Democratic Party no longer has a clear policy on immigration.It used to, not so long ago. The party’s leaders knew what they favored and felt comfortable saying so. Their platform generally included: 1) a path to citizenship for immigrants who came to this country illegally but had since obeyed the law; 2) deportation of undocumented immigrants who had since broken the law in significant ways; 3) fairly robust border security and investigation of companies employing undocumented immigrants, to hold down current and future levels of illegal immigration.Besides favoring these policies, Democrats were also willing to talk about the benefits of limiting immigration and of assimilation. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Consider this 2015 statement from Bernie Sanders: “What right-wing people in this country would love is an open-border policy … I don’t believe in that. I think we have to raise wages in this country.”Or this 2006 line from Barack Obama, in his book, “The Audacity of Hope”: “When I see Mexican flags waved at pro-immigration demonstrations, I sometimes feel a flush of patriotic resentment.”Or this comment last year from Hillary Clinton: “I think Europe needs to get a handle on migration.” It earned her immediate condemnation from progressives and a scathing story in The Times.I understand why the Democratic Party has moved to the left on immigration policy over the past few years. It is, in significant part, an honorable reaction to Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant racism and a desire to stand up for immigrants during his presidency. The Trump administration has separated immigrant children from their parents, and Democrats are trying to protect those families.What’s less clear to me is exactly what the Democratic Party’s new position on immigration is.Questions to answerAmong the questions that I’d like Democrats to answer:What kind of border security do you believe in? Do you favor the policies Obama put in place to reduce illegal immigration — or a different approach?Do you believe that immigrants who enter this country illegally should be allowed to stay? If not, which categories of undocumented immigrants should be at risk of deportation? (In a 2016 debate, Clinton and Sanders didn’t offer clear answers when Univision’s Jorge Ramos asked similar questions.)What do you believe should happen to future levels of legal immigration? And what should happen to the mix of different categories of immigration? Should family connections play as large a role as they now do? Should workplace skills continue to play a small role?Do you believe, as Sanders suggested in 2015, that more immigration can reduce wages, especially for lower-income workers and recent immigrants themselves?My own view is that the country benefits from significant limits on immigration. As David Frum notes in a recent cover story for The Atlantic, immigration levels were quite low for much of the 20th century — from roughly the 1910s through the 1970s. The slowdown helped many of the immigrants who arrived in the waves before 1910 (including parts of my family). They faced less competition in the labor market. Labor unions were more easily able to grow, because they were organizing an increasingly assimilated workforce. The immigration slowdown played a role in the great income surge of the post-World War II decades. Today, I’d favor a policy with a lot of similarities to the Democrats’ platform of the Obama years, including humane treatment of immigrants already here plus tight border security. I’d change the mix of immigration, to let in fewer low-skills immigrants and more high-skills immigrants. Doing so has the potential to reduce inequality and lift economic growth.I recognize that this platform is probably too conservative for many Democrats. But high levels of immigration, stretching over many decades, is not an American tradition. It’s something new, and it brings both upsides and downsides.For anyone who wants to think through the subject, I recommend Frum’s article. (The politician quotations above come from it.) For critiques of Frum’s piece, see Nancy LeTourneau in Washington Monthly and Noah Smith of Bloomberg Opinion.If nothing else, I’d urge Democrats to look at public opinion on immigration with an open mind. The polling isn’t as favorable as some of the recent conversation on the left has suggested. In a recent Gallup poll, 47 percent of Americans called illegal immigration a critical threat and another 30 percent called it an important threat.I wouldn’t call it either of those. But I do think it’s folly — both substantively and politically — to pretend that more immigration is always better than less. And I think it’s a mistake for Democrats to be so unclear about what their party’s immigration agenda is.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanThe Trump administration is preparing to shutter many of its immigration operations abroad, cutting back on a key support system for those applying overseas to relocate to the United States.The director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, L. Francis Cissna, told senior staff members this week that the international division, which has operations in more than 20 countries, would close down by the end of the year, according to two people with knowledge of the meeting.Agency officials said the move was intended to provide more staff resources to handle the lengthy backlog in asylum applications from tens of thousands of migrants crossing the southern border every month. But it could come at the expense of legal migration, which President Trump has said he favors: Some agency staff members said closing overseas offices will make it more difficult and time-consuming to apply to immigrate from abroad, especially for refugees already in the United States who hope to bring other family members to join them.“This is another instance of the Trump administration halting legal immigration by denying people the opportunity to file for immigration benefits in the most expedient manner,” said Margaret Stock, a retired United States Army lieutenant colonel and an immigration attorney who frequently handles such cases.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The overseas division provides logistical assistance to American citizens, lawful permanent residents and refugees seeking to bring family members to the United States; people who have been persecuted and wish to resettle in the United States; Americans who adopt children internationally; and members of the military and their families applying for citizenship. It also plays a crucial role in immigration fraud detection.“It will be a great blow to the quality and integrity of the legal immigration system,” said Barbara Strack, who retired last year as the chief of the Refugee Affairs Division at the agency. “It will throw that system into chaos around the world.”The International Operations Division has about 240 employees working at 24 field offices in 21 countries.Jessica Collins, a spokeswoman for the agency, said the proposed reorganization would shift the agency’s workload to other offices but not necessarily cut back on its operations. “As we have internally shared, U.S.C.I.S. is in preliminary discussions to consider reallocation of its international U.S.C.I.S. office workloads to U.S.C.I.S. domestic offices in the United States and, where practicable, to U.S. embassies and consulates abroad,” she said in response to emailed questions.“The goal of any such shift would be to maximize U.S.C.I.S. resources that could then be reallocated, in part, to backlog reduction efforts,” said Ms. Collins, who declined to elaborate further.In recent months, the agency — which is primarily funded by fees paid by applicants, not by American taxpayers — has been reassigning adjudicators who handle green card and naturalization applications to process a bulging backlog of asylum claims filed by migrant families arriving at the southern border in record numbers.“It is definitely not a preliminary discussion. It’s happening,” said a senior lawyer with the agency, noting that an international-operations training course scheduled in two weeks was canceled and that officers were told to return to their former jobs.The staff member, who was not authorized to speak with the news media and spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that the work would either be done by temporary rotational staff “if absolutely needed, or pushed to the State Department, if the State Department is willing.”A spokeswoman for the State Department referred all questions to Citizenship and Immigration Services.In cities like Amman, Bangkok and Nairobi, staff with the agency’s International Operations Division conduct interviews with refugees whose relatives are already living in the United States and who wish to sponsor them for immigration, a process already plagued with delays because of additional layers of screening added under Mr. Trump’s travel ban targeting certain nations.International staff also provide logistical support to teams of refugee officers who travel abroad on so-called circuit rides to interview refugees who have applied to be resettled in the United States, many of whom have remained in refugee camps for years.“These refugee family members in East Africa have already faced tremendous delays in their cases, and this change will only make it worse,” said an agency staff member, who was not authorized to speak with the news media. “This is a disaster for them.”The primary obligation of the international operations office in Bangkok, for example, is to handle refugee applications. “The demise of this office will mean that refugees will be cast adrift, literally,” said Diane Butler, an immigration lawyer in Seattle who visited that district office, which oversees all of Asia, in late February. She said that a new district director had been transitioning into the new position. “There was no hint of this,” she said.The changes at U.S.C.I.S. come as the president’s proposed budget for the next fiscal year proposes cutting State Department funding for humanitarian assistance overseas, prompting concern from refugee advocates.Mr. Trump’s spending plan, which is likely to face deep resistance on Capitol Hill, would reduce the State Department budget for humanitarian spending from about $9.1 billion to about $6 billion, according to budget documents released this week by the administration.In addition, the budget proposal would virtually eliminate funding for the State Department’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, which for years has worked to help refugees resettle in the United States. The budget would transfer most of the money to a new program jointly administered by the United States Agency for International Development and the secretary of State.“At a time where there have never been more forcibly displaced people in recorded history, this administration came to Capitol Hill and with a straight face said they were proposing a cut in humanitarian assistance of more than one-third,” said Eric Schwartz, the president of Refugees International, an advocacy organization.“It’s all about the fact that the president has communicated that he doesn’t like refugees coming to the United States,” Mr. Schwartz said. “His administration is carrying out that obstruction in a determined way.”Mr. Trump said in his State of the Union address last month that the United States needed legal immigrants. But his focus remains on fortifying the border, and the latest move is one of a series of policy moves that will have the effect of curbing legal immigration. His administration has slashed the number of refugees that can be admitted, narrowed who is eligible for asylum and made it more difficult to qualify for permanent residency or citizenship.Under Mr. Cissna, who has crafted a number of measures to tighten immigration rules, the citizenship agency has taken on an unprecedented enforcement role. Last year, it established a “denaturalization task force” to strip citizenship from those found to have obtained it by fraudulent means. It has also drafted regulations to no longer allow spouses of those in the country on guest worker visas to obtain work permits.The elimination of the international division would have the most potential impact on family reunification, the cornerstone of the country’s immigration system for five decades, which Mr. Trump derisively refers to as “chain migration.”Transferring the workload to already overburdened staff at the State Department and the citizenship agency’s domestic offices could lead to long delays, several agency officials and immigration lawyers said, keeping many applicants stranded abroad for months or longer as they and their loved ones navigate the necessary red tape needed to immigrate.To the extent that work can be completed domestically or electronically, it has already been transferred, the current and former officials said.“Its core mission is family reunification,” said Justin Cox, senior supervising attorney at the International Refugee Assistance Project in New York. “In the best of circumstances, it is going to cause significant delays across the board. In the worst of circumstances, it could keep families apart for years.”United States military personnel abroad would no longer be able to file immigrant visa petitions for spouses and family members locally.“It’s going to smack all government employees abroad, including folks in the military, who have a foreign spouse or kids they are trying to bring to the U.S. legally,” said Ms. Stock, who handles a number of such cases in her immigration practice.She said that one of her clients, an American defense contractor living on a military base in Kuwait who married a Yemeni woman, could be forced to remain apart from his wife for an extended period of time after returning to the United States if he cannot apply for her green card abroad.“If he can’t get it through international operations, he will be thrown into the general U.S. backlog and have to be separated from his wife for more than a year,” Ms. Stock said.The average processing time for all cases at Citizenship and Immigration Services surged by 46 percent over the past two fiscal years and 91 percent since 2014, according to the American Immigration Lawyers Association.Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Palko KaraszAn anti-immigration lawmaker in Australia who has been criticized for blaming Muslim immigration for Friday’s New Zealand shootings struck a teenager who smashed an egg on his head in Melbourne on Saturday.In video footage on the Facebook page of the senator, Fraser Anning, the teenager can be seen approaching him as Mr. Anning speaks to reporters in a southeastern suburb of Melbourne. The teenager raises a mobile phone in one hand and smashes the egg on the back of Mr. Anning’s head with the other.Mr. Anning turns and swiftly strikes the young man in the face twice. A scuffle ensues in which other men tackle the teenager to the ground while swearing at him. The video shows them holding the teenager on the ground in a chokehold until police officers arrive.A police spokesman said officers had arrested a 17-year-old man at the scene and later released him pending further inquiries. Local news outlets later identified the teenager as Will Connolly.On Sunday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison suggested the legislator should be charged for smacking the teenager, telling reporters: “The full force of the law should be applied to Senator Anning.”After dozens of people were shot and killed at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, Mr. Anning said in a statement widely shared on Twitter, “The real cause of bloodshed on New Zealand streets today is the immigration program which allowed Muslim fanatics to migrate to New Zealand in the first place.”[Read our latest updates on the New Zealand shooting.]His remarks drew condemnation across the political spectrum.“These comments are appalling and they’re ugly and they have no place in Australia,” said Scott Morrison, Australia’s prime minister, according to the ABC, the national broadcaster.Mr. Anning, 69, who was elected as a senator from Queensland in 2017, is known for his anti-immigration views and inflammatory remarks.Last summer, he invoked a Nazi euphemism for genocide when he called for Muslims to be barred from entering Australia, telling Parliament, “The final solution to the immigration problem, of course, is a popular vote.”On Saturday, people were donating funds online to cover the teenager’s legal fees, the ABC reported, and to help him buy “more eggs.”Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jennifer MedinaSAN DIEGO — With a mother and her three children facing deportation, the immigration judge wanted to make sure the woman understood the charges against her. But even with the help of an interpreter speaking in Q’anjob’al, a Mayan language, Magdalena Lucas Antonio de Pascual appeared to comprehend little.“What language do you speak?” Judge Philip S. Law asked.“The reason why I left my country?” she replied through the translator.“I came across the border illegally because I needed to,” she later told the judge.“I am going to ignore what you just told me, because that’s not what I asked you,” he said. “I am trying to explain the process and your rights.”Throughout the 50-minute hearing, the misunderstandings kept coming.Ms. Antonio de Pascual is one of many migrants coming into the United States from remote areas of Central America who only speak indigenous languages. An increase in the number of these migrants is adding to delays in a court system that is already overwhelmed by a backlog of more than 800,000 cases. Now the courts do not have enough interpreters to serve them, pushing the system to its limits, many lawyers, interpreters and advocates say.The number of pending immigration cases has grown by nearly 50 percent under President Trump, what many lawyers and advocates say is a crisis.United States immigration officials provide interpreters in as many as 350 languages over all, including Mandarin, Creole, Punjabi, Arabic and Russian. But Mam, K’iche’ and Q’anjob’al — all indigenous to Guatemala — have each become one of the 25 most common languages spoken in immigration court in the past few years.In San Diego, a Q’anjob’al speaker had her asylum hearing pushed back for more than a year because no interpreters were available. In another case, a man whose primary language is Mam was unable to explain that his family had been killed in his Guatemalan town, which could be a basis for asylum, his lawyer said. The problems have seeped into the criminal courts as well: In the case of one man accused of a misdemeanor battery, the court interpreter, who was speaking in Ixil, did not ask him if he was competent to stand trial, as the judge instructed, but instead told him to “pray to God,” according to a complaint filed in Wisconsin state court.Ashley Tabaddor, an immigration judge in Los Angeles and the president of the National Association of Immigration Judges, said the lack of interpreters was contributing to even more delays.“It’s a colossal waste of our time to now have to reorganize hundreds of thousands of cases to deal with language issues and then there’s no interpreter,” Ms. Tabaddor said.The small number of interpreters who do have a basic grasp of indigenous languages are still often ill-equipped to help — they must explain legal terms that are difficult to comprehend in any language and there are significant differences between regional dialects.With migrants who cannot understand or be understood, lawyers and immigration experts say, there is no way to ensure fairness in court.“We have an entire infrastructure set up where the default language is Spanish, but there are thousands of people coming to the southern border who can’t communicate that way — and they basically become invisible,” said Blake Gentry, a researcher who estimates that as many as a third of the migrants crossing the border through Arizona do not speak Spanish.Immigration courts across the country have seen a steady rise in speakers of indigenous Guatemalan languages in the last five years, according to the Justice Department’s Executive Office for Immigration Review, which oversees the court. And they are only the most recent additions to the list, which for several years has routinely included Zapotec, Mixtec, Ixil and Popti, languages from southern Mexico and Central America.“The lack of interpretation for indigenous people has been a problem for a long time,” said Odilia Romero, a Zapotec interpreter who has been an activist with the Binational Front of Indigenous Organizations for the last 20 years. “But what we see now is something entirely different: We have entire populations showing up with languages that we have not seen in the United States before.“The court may provide an interpreter so they have fulfilled the requirement, but that doesn’t mean there is any real understanding,” she said.Although many immigration courts have Spanish interpreters on staff, they rely on private contractors for interpreters of indigenous languages. Nearly all in-person interpreters come from one Virginia-based company, SOS International, which has an $80 million contract with the federal government.The government could not say how many interpreters are available in specific languages and relies on SOS International, which did not respond to multiple inquiries. A spokeswoman for the Executive Office of Immigration Review said the court tries to accommodate all non-English speakers and constantly monitors the cases nationally to meet new needs.But getting interpreters to court is hardly a given: With so few of them in such high demand, they have to be arranged weeks or even months in advance. Judges are often forced to rely on interpreters by phone, making it difficult to hear and impossible to understand body language. And interpreter shortages are plaguing courts across the country, including New York and Chicago.Even when interpreters are in court, it is routinely difficult to explain legal concepts to the migrants, particularly to the vast majority who do not have a lawyer. And because many indigenous interpreters do not speak English, they must use “relay” interpretation — with the judge’s English first being translated into Spanish before being translated to the indigenous language.In many cases, said Ms. Tabaddor, the immigration judge, migrants who speak only rudimentary Spanish try to get by in that language, sometimes out of shame or a belief that Spanish will help them convince United States officials that they should be allowed to stay.The problem extends to lawyers, who often can’t speak to their clients. Carmen Chavez, the executive director of the Casa Cornelia Law Center, a nonprofit immigration legal service in San Diego that helps match clients with interpreters, said that of the more than 2,000 cases the group handled last year, roughly a quarter of migrants from Latin America did not speak Spanish.“It is constantly difficult to find someone who is qualified to interpret for these cases,” she said.Even among interpreters certified to work in the courts, there is little oversight, and advocates worry whether interpreters and those who hire them are competent.Since immigrating to Los Angeles from Guatemala in the 1990s, Policarpo Chaj has worked as a K’iche’ interpreter for lawyers, doctors and other businesses. Mr. Chaj said he has repeatedly heard of lawyers trying to hire anyone they meet who speaks K’iche’ and Spanish.“Speaking a language is not the only thing that makes you qualified to be an interpreter,” he said. “You have to understand the law, you have know how to write, you have to know how to ask something concrete. You are dealing with people’s rights, it is your moral responsibility to make sure they understand exactly what the judge is saying.”It’s possible for migrants to not encounter a single person who speaks their language on their path through the immigration system, making it all but impossible to give officials information. While most agents working along the Mexican border and in detention centers speak at least basic Spanish, few know any indigenous languages. Officers often grow frustrated and accuse these migrants of being uncooperative, leaving them even more confused, lawyers and advocates say.Children who do not speak Spanish are especially isolated, shelter workers say. They are left without the ability to speak with counselors and are more likely to act out, then are punished or medicated. Parents who only speak an indigenous language often cannot communicate that they have been separated from their children.Even migrants with lawyers are often forced to depend on their bilingual children for further help.In court, Ms. Antonio de Pascual struggled to explain her situation through the court interpreter. The family arrived last summer, meeting her husband who has lived in the San Diego area for several years. She enrolled each of her children in school, and her 8-year-old daughter refused to miss class for the court hearing. Ms. Antonio de Pascual, who is illiterate, said she could not remember what forms she signed or questions she answered when she spoke to United States officials near the border last year.Ms. Antonio de Pascual’s initial hearing had already been postponed because no interpreter was available. As this recent one ended, she asked the judge to give her six months to save money for a lawyer. Saying that would be too much time, the judge said he wanted her back in court in June and expected her to begin looking for a lawyer immediately.When she was dismissed, her 12-year-old son, who speaks limited Spanish and Q’anjob’al, took the stack of court documents, placing them inside his small green backpack. He said he planned to spend the afternoon calling the phone numbers listed for pro bono lawyers who might take their case.Miriam Jordan contributed reporting.AdvertisementIt has long been an open secret that some farms survive by relying on an undocumented labor force. Now, tough immigration enforcement has caused a crisis.Eladio Beltran, 32, and two of his four children, Hady, 12, and Nisi, 10, stand outside their home in upstate New York. Mr. Beltran, originally from Mexico, has worked on farms in the United States for over a decade.CreditCreditLibby March for The New York TimesSupported byBy Christina Goldbaum[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]HOMER, N.Y. — The fears weigh on Mike McMahon: If one of his undocumented workers gets a traffic ticket, it could prompt an immigration audit of his entire farm. If another gets detained by immigration agents at a roadside checkpoint or in a supermarket parking lot, the rest may flee. And if his undocumented work force disappears overnight, there is no one to replace them.“It keeps me up at night,” said Mr. McMahon, who owns a dairy farm south of Syracuse. “There are people out there who just say, ‘Send them all back and build a wall.’ But they would be facing empty shelves in the grocery store if that were to happen.”It has long been an open secret in upstate New York that the dairy industry has been able to survive only by relying on undocumented immigrants for its work force. Now, this region has become a national focal point in the debate over President Trump’s crackdown on undocumented immigrants and their role in agriculture.The tensions have escalated to such a degree over the last year that Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo described federal agents as reckless, accusing Immigration and Customs Enforcement of violating the rights of farmers in pursuing undocumented immigrants.Mr. Cuomo was responding to a high-profile raid on a dairy farm, during which a farmer was briefly handcuffed after protesting that ICE agents were mistreating one of his workers. The farmer claimed ICE did not have a warrant to enter his farm.Mr. Cuomo is a Democrat, but Republicans who represent upstate New York in Congress have also come to the defense of the farmers.The pressures here reflect broader challenges facing farmers across the country who rely on undocumented workers. The farmers are struggling with a shrinking labor pool as fewer migrants cross illegally into the country and migrants who are long-term residents become too old for field work.This year the labor shortage has been compounded by Mr. Trump’s trade war and extreme weather, forcing some small farmers to switch to higher-value crops, to reduce their acreage and to consider selling their farms.If anything, the situation in upstate New York is more difficult.Smaller dairy farmers here have been some of the hardest hit by tougher immigration enforcement because their workers are subject to scrutiny from both ICE and the border patrol, which is allowed to operate within 100 miles of the border — in this case, with Canada.Agriculture contributes an estimated $37 billion to New York’s economy and is responsible for nearly 200,000 jobs.“We are seeing that the immigration enforcement is having a tremendous enforcement impact on farm workers, on farms,” said Mary Jo Dudley, director of the Cornell Farmworker Program. “For many farmers, there’s no alternative labor force.”To search private property like a farm, ICE needs a warrant that shows reason to believe a particular undocumented immigrant is living or working there. But if undocumented workers leave the farm to go to a grocery store, they can be approached by ICE agents in a parking lot or a roadside checkpoint, detained and deported.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]Advocates for undocumented immigrants said ICE agents target immigrants indiscriminately in these public spaces. But ICE disputes those claims.“ICE continues to focus its limited resources first and foremost on those who pose the greatest threat to public safety,” said an ICE spokesman, Khaalid Walls. “ICE only conducts targeted immigration enforcement. The agency does not conduct raids or sweeps that target aliens indiscriminately.”Supporters of stricter immigration policies said they were sympathetic to the plight of small farms. But they pointed out that the farms’ reliance on inexpensive, undocumented labor would handicap American agriculture in the long term.They argue that while immigration crackdowns could force farms to consolidate and mechanize and may be hard for individual farmers, it would make the industry more competitive globally.“The more productive policy response would be subsidized loans to invest in machinery for small-scale farmers, rather than revising how we import foreign workers and perpetuating the labor-intensive old-fashioned way of doing business,” said Mark Krikorian, executive director for the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank that favors restricting immigration.Dairy farmers face particular challenges because without American workers, they have no alternative to migrant labor. The government program that brings in legal temporary workers does so only for seasonal workers and dairy farming is a year-round activity.In Washington, lawmakers representing dairy-heavy districts have tried to reform the legal foreign workers program to include year-round dairy workers.But so far, efforts have fallen short. These lawmakers are caught between staunch conservatives who consider any reprieve a form of amnesty and Democrats who want more comprehensive immigration reform, which would also address the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, and immigrants with Temporary Protected Status.“We’ll have detractors on both sides,” said Representative Chris Collins, a Republican in western New York.Still, Mr. Collins said, a solution is urgently required to keep dairy farms afloat while the political impasse over a comprehensive immigration package drags on. “There’s not a single person representing dairy that doesn’t understand it’s a crisis, a true crisis,” he said.He plans to introduce legislation in the coming weeks that would offer temporary employment authorization to year-round farmworkers on dairies as a stopgap measure.Deportations have been a concern for New York’s farmers and farm workers since the early 2000s, when the sudden enforcement of immigration laws led to a rash of immigration enforcement activities on farms across the state. After the Obama administration narrowed the pool of immigrants ICE prioritized for deportation, some sense of security returned to upstate farming communities, which was shattered when Mr. Trump took office.“We had heard things were starting to get bad, some wineries in the area and quite a few in the Finger Lakes started losing workers. It was almost immediately after Trump took office that ICE started snagging people,” said Kelly Raby, a vineyard owner in Lewiston.Last fall, Victor Pacheco, the foreman on Ms. Raby’s family farm for 23 years, was detained by ICE agents and deported to Mexico.Ms. Raby has struggled to find a foreman skilled enough to manage her vineyard, where the grapevines are now dusted in a light coat of snow and in need of winter pruning. This has left her uncertain about the future of their family farm and the president she helped vote into office.“I still agree with Trump in a lot of ways, but I’m more on the fence about him now,” Ms. Raby said. “I don’t want to lose the immigrants who are working here and growing our food.”Over the last 50 years, American farms have relied on two labor forces: migrants who settled in the United States during the migration wave of the 1960s and 1970s; and those who stayed temporarily, illegally crossing the border for each harvest season. But today, permanent migrants who settled are reaching their 60s, fewer and fewer seasonal migrants are coming to the United States, and enforcement operations are driving the few migrants left out of the state.“Today you go to work and you don’t know if you’ll come back home and be with your family again,” said Eladio Beltran, an immigrant from Mexico who works in an apple orchard in Albion. He is currently awaiting deportation proceedings after being pulled over by state troopers and taken into ICE custody.“Being undocumented and living in New York State is not worth it anymore,” he said.For dairy farmers like Mr. McMahon, if even one of his migrant workers leaves, the absence has a drastic effect on his 2,300-acre farm operation. He depends on having enough workers for round-the-clock shifts, seven days a week. They keep this schedule year-round, he said, to ensure his roughly 800 cows are milked three times a day, their calves are fed, and all cows are medically cared for.“What we really want is some kind of method of getting foreign workers legally,” Mr. McMahon said from his farm in Homer, about 30 miles south of Syracuse.Owners of apple orchards and vineyards, who can afford to, have also started turning to the H-2A program, the legal foreign worker program that brings agricultural labor to the United States for temporary work.Critics of the program argue that workers are often exploited by employers and risk deportation if they complain about mistreatment. Farmers complain that it is costly, complicated and laden with bureaucracy.“We didn’t really have a choice but to use to H-2A,” said Mark Nicholson of Red Jacket Orchards, which switched to using the program last year. “When the system works, it answers one of our biggest challenges to staying in business — and that’s having a reliable source of skilled farm labor. But when it doesn’t work, it dooms us to the same risk as before.”If the issue of undocumented farm workers is left unaddressed, there will be an impact across the supply chain. “There will be long-term consequences that not only our farms will deal with, but consumers will have to deal with as well,” said Steve Ammerman, the senior associate director of public policy at the New York Farm Bureau.Without a legal alternative to informal migrant labor, the competition between dairy farms to retain migrant workers is so fierce that farm owners, once notorious for underpaying and mistreating workers, are now improving working conditions and wages to entice employees to stay on their farms, workers said.Victor Cortez is an immigrant who has worked on a dairy farm in western New York for 18 years. A few years ago, farm owners “wouldn’t let us leave the farm,” he said, adding, “They wouldn’t pay us as much as they promised they would.”“But the good thing about it now,” he said, “is that we get paid more and this farmer is good to me.”Follow Christina Goldbaum on Twitter: @cegoldbaumOpinionShikha DalmiaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLethal partisanship is taking us into dangerous territory.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.A recent survey asked Republicans and Democrats whether they agreed with the statement that members of the opposition party “are not just worse for politics — they are downright evil.”The answers, published in January in a paper, “Lethal Mass Partisanship,” were startling, but maybe they shouldn’t have been.Just over 42 percent of the people in each party view the opposition as “downright evil.” In real numbers, this suggests that 48.8 million voters out of the 136.7 million who cast ballots in 2016 believe that members of opposition party are in league with the devil.The mass partisanship paper was written by Nathan P. Kalmoe and Lilliana Mason, political scientists at Louisiana State University and the University of Maryland.Kalmoe and Mason, taking the exploration of partisan animosity a step farther, found that nearly one out of five Republicans and Democrats agree with the statement that their political adversaries “lack the traits to be considered fully human — they behave like animals.”Their line of questioning did not stop there.How about: “Do you ever think: ‘we’d be better off as a country if large numbers of the opposing party in the public today just died’?”Some 20 percent of Democrats (that translates to 12.6 million voters) and 16 percent of Republicans (or 7.9 million voters) do think on occasion that the country would be better off if large numbers of the opposition died.We’re not finished: “What if the opposing party wins the 2020 presidential election. How much do you feel violence would be justified then?” 18.3 percent of Democrats and 13.8 percent of Republicans said violence would be justified on a scale ranging from “a little” to “a lot.”Kalmoe and Mason analyzed the data to see what kind of voter was likely to adopt extremely critical views of the opposition party: Strongly identifying with one political side is associated with increased political hostility toward opponents in terms of moral disengagement, partisan schadenfreude, and partisan violence.One personal trait stood out: “Aggression was the only factor that predicted all three types of lethal partisan attitudes.”Contrary to the expectation that the losers of elections might be more inclined to violence, the two authors determined that winning increases support for violence against the opposition.There was “significantly more support for partisan violence among strong partisans when told their party was more likely than not to win in 2020.”Overall, the authors wrote, “our evidence suggests that winning more than losing prompts strong partisans to feel less opposed to partisan violence.”As partisan hostility deepens, there is one group that might ordinarily be expected to help pull the electorate out of this morass — the most knowledgeable and sophisticated voters.According to a forthcoming study, however, it is just these voters who display the most uncritical acceptance of party orthodoxy, left or right. On both sides, the best informed voters are by far the most partisan.In “Understanding Partisan Cue Receptivity,” Bert N. Bakker and Yphtach Lelkes, professors at the Amsterdam School of Communication Research and the University of Pennsylvania, and Ariel Malka, a professor of psychology at Yeshiva University, find that knowledgeable, politically engaged voters are the most likely “to adopt issue attitudes that are cued as party-consistent in the political information environment.” In plain language, the most active voters — those notably “high in cognitive resources” — are the most willing to accept policy positions endorsed by their party, and they are doing so not out of principle, but to affirm their identity as a Democrat or Republican. They are expressing “the desire to reach conclusions that are consistent with a valued identity.”The authors call this process “identity expression” or a “tendency of partisans to adopt issue attitudes that are cued as party-consistent in the political information environment.”This willingness to adopt a policy position not out of conviction but out of a desire to conform to partisan priorities reflects an urge, they write, “to bolster and protect valued political identities by expressing and rationalizing the viewpoints cued to be consistent with these identities.”In an email, Lelkes wrote that he and his co-authors felt it important “to be careful about causal reasoning.” They concluded their article with this commentary:Ironically, reflective citizens, who are sometimes seen as ideal citizens, might be the subset of strong partisan identifiers most likely to fall in line with the party. Since higher levels of cognitive resources and partisan social identity are associated with higher levels of political activism, the effect may be self-reinforcing, wherein political elites polarize the strongly identified and cognitively reflective, who then elect more polarized elites. The democratic dilemma may not be whether low information citizens can learn what they need to know, but whether high information citizens can set aside their partisan predispositions.These two papers raise a set of basic questions about group identity: Why are partisan divisions sharpening now and are these conflicts likely to become more aggravated?Robert Kurzban, the author of “The Hidden Agenda of the Political Mind,” argues that domestic politics have taken on a moralistic, judgmental cast:There is a rise in “purity tests” for politicians, such that if they do not adopt the line of the party on core issues — especially those to do with identity politics — they are subject to round condemnation.Any deviation, Kurzban continued in an email, is likely to be severely punished: Being just a tiny bit out of step is seen as grievous a sin as being completely out of step. People are seeing others’ positions as categorical rather than continuous.Steven Pinker, a professor of psychology at Harvard, argues that it is the activation of group identity — of the friend-enemy type, about which I have written before — that is driving hostile polarization:Certainly there is a tribal flavor to political polarization. Men’s testosterone rises or falls on election night, depending on whether their side wins, just as it does on Super Bowl Sunday.But, he continued,the coalitions clustering at the poles are not tribes in the classical anthropological sense. Today’s left- and right-wingers for the most part aren’t inventing myths of shared blood and common ancestry, or binding together in ritual ordeals, or blending in appearance with a common uniform.Instead, Pinker argued,I think we’re seeing a somewhat different psychological phenomenon: dynamically sorting ourselves into coalitions defined by moralistic condemnation of designated enemies.Pinker cited the questions raised in the work of Kurzban and Peter DeScioli, a political scientist at Stony Brook, wonderingwhy so much of our moralizing does not consist in pondering how to universalize the maxim of our actions or to bring about the greatest good for the greatest number, but rather of condemning, demonizing, or scapegoating a designated sinner.DeScioli provided some answers to the question in his replies to my queries:Our coalitional psychology goes far beyond a simple distinction between us and them. We form coalitions nested within coalitions, and our loyalties can suddenly shift. Our minds keep track of other individuals’ allies and enemies in an ornate network of loyalties. Conflicts routinely occur within a group, and generally more often than against outgroups. We use aggression as a tactic both within and between groups, and we do so cautiously, weighing the costs and benefits. Our coalitional psychology is more like a Machiavellian playbook of strategies than a simple reflex of hostility toward an outgroup. Partisan hostility is certainly a form of coalitional aggression rooted in evolved strategies, but so are the prudent strategies of peace and compromise.Moral condemnation, DeScioli wrote, is aprime suspect behind partisan hostility. Moral judgment inspires outrage and a desire to punish wrongdoers, forming a potent source of aggression. I have argued that moral judgment is an evolved strategy for choosing sides in conflicts. We seek retribution not only to deter harmful behavior but also to show which side we are on in a dispute.Moral condemnation and approbation can both be useful to encourage productive cooperation within a group, but they can also be deeply destructive when used to demonize and humiliate outsiders.John Hibbing, a political scientist at the University of Nebraska, makes the case that polarization has intensified becausethe central political issues of the day revolve around in-group versus out-group, the definition of the in-group, and the unity and security of the in-group.While as recently as 30 years ago, there were a fair number of conservative Democrats and liberal Republicans who held views contrary to the majority of their respective parties, Hibbing wrote,the problem today is that there are so few cross-cutting cleavages. There is only one cleavage and it is the most evolutionarily primal cleavage of them all.Hibbing dismissed the argument that people have “become tribal because of changes in the media environment.” Instead, he wrote,people became tribal because the fundamental substantive issues today are about tribe. We are a group-based species.Kevin Smith, who is also a political scientist at the University of Nebraska, argues that humans are incredibly groupish creatures — as a species we’re pretty hard wired to make “us v them” categorizations.For much of the twentieth century, according to this line of thinking, the first world war, the Great Depression, the second world war and the Cold War filled much of the need for an in-group versus out-group configuration. During this period, Smith said, there were consensual “sources of information” and political parties “that were relatively nonideological” with many members “willing to cross the aisle to cut deals.”In recent years, “a lot of that has gone,” Smith told me. “Political parties are now deeply ideological,” which makes it easier toappeal to our “us versus them” instinct. Indeed, it makes it more and more likely that we emotionally attach ourselves to a particularly political group, remain reflexively loyal to it, and automatically denigrate anyone who disagrees with it — we are indeed hard-wired for this sort of thing and political parties have, in effect, organized themselves around, and are now appealing directly to, that part of our psychology which is, and always has been, more emotional than rational.When, if ever, will things improve? Jonathan Haidt, a psychologist at N.Y.U., is not optimistic. He emailed:I am expecting that America’s political dysfunction and anger will worsen, and will continue to worsen even after Donald Trump leaves the White House.Why?The reasons for my pessimism are that 1) social media gets ever more effective at drowning us in outrage; 2) overall trust in institutions continues to decline, which makes it seem ever more urgent that “our” side take total control; 3) the younger generations have not seen effective political institutions or norms during their lives, and also seem less adept at handling political disagreements; and 4) the norms of campus regarding call-out culture seem to be spreading quickly into business and many other institutions.Two of the most insightful people on evolved human behavior are Leda Cosmides and John Tooby, professors of psychology and anthropology at the University of California, Santa Barbara.Cosmides and Tooby explore the complexities and ambiguities of moral reasoning in their seminal essay “Groups in Mind: The Coalitional Roots of War and Morality,” which concludes on an appropriately ambiguous note:The set of evolved programs that enable and drive warfare and politics strongly overlap with the set of evolved programs that drive human morality. The mapping of these evolved programs and their embedded circuit logic is only in its infancy, and we have only sketched out some of the known or predicted features of our coalitional and moral psychologies. However, progress in this enterprise holds out the possibility of gradually throwing light on some of the darkest areas of human life.In a lengthy email that I cannot fully do justice to in this column, Tooby wrote that everybodybenefits from participating in groups of alliances and factions on different scales, and people also benefit by fractionating solidarity in such a way that those on the far side of the boundary seem undesirable, worth spurning, contemptible, deplorable.This, in turn, encourages evolved mental programs that support self-advantageous information warfare: Of all the signals an individual hears, and out of all the spontaneous thoughts that teem in our minds, each individual filters, remembers, and broadcasts what benefits her in building up herself and her allies, and downgrades those who are her rivals.Tooby added: “I think we cannot begin to appreciate how immense and all-encompassing this process is.”Tooby pointed to group pressure to adopt down the line agreement on issues when there is, in fact, much room for dissent and disagreement:There is no necessary reason why someone’s position on abortion should predict their position on global warming should predict their position on welfare should predict their position on school choice should predict their position on illegal immigration. These are all entirely logically independent, yet there is a natural tendency for alliance gravitation to pull people into sets — often binary sets — because issues are more often flags of identity, and it creates in-group dissension to have a multiplicity of views inside the group.Even more important, he writes,Honest reasoning about issues is inconsistent with group loyalty. To be a good group member, I should adhere to a position because it is the group’s position, while believing that the facts justify it.Leda Cosmides expressed some of her ideas about the connection between us-and-them thinking and evil, the topic with which I began this column, in an interview that was originally published in a Chilean newspaper in 2001 and still resonates:The world has many people with evil motives, who will twist whatever ideas are around them to their own ends. Hitler, for example, was more influenced by folk notions about “blood” (found everywhere) than by any real biological knowledge.She went on:Since the Enlightenment, people have been trying to build bridges between disciplines, and when they do, new insights are achieved and humanity benefits. Should the healing arts have been kept separate from biology? If they had, we would not have antibiotics and modern medicine. Should psychology be kept separate from biology? If it is, we will never understand how the mind works. As a result, we will never understand how to make war less likely, how to cure autism, how to help people understand risk, or how to prevent racism, to name just a few problems on which evolutionary psychologists are making progress. Indeed, if we keep psychology separate from biology, people will continue to believe that “race” is a sensible concept; in contrast, human population biology tells us that humanity is not divided into distinct “races.”This work is far from done.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe advent of Beto O’Rourke’s presidential candidacy has Democrats arguing ferociously among themselves.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.Within days of his announcement that he was running for the Democratic presidential nomination, Beto O’Rourke shot up in the rankings in terms of money, media coverage and Google searches. Then the knives came out — progressives, women, African-Americans and party loyalists all took a stab at him.The response to Beto is polarizing the Democratic activist community. The overriding question for Democrats is electability: who can beat Trump is a matter of pressing concern and profound anxiety for at least half the nation. The wrong choice would be disastrous.Let’s start with O’Rourke’s negatives and we’ll get to the positives later.“I’ve been quite critical of O’Rourke because I don’t really think the 2020 race needs him. We already have a pretty good bench of Democrats, and they mostly have thought far more about policy and politics than O’Rourke has,” Sean McElwee, a co-founder of Data for Progress, whose views represent those of many on the outspoken left, told me:I think he’s vulnerable because of his gaffes and vague policies, but I think he’s most weak due to his pretty pro-development tenure on the El Paso City Council.McElwee contended that O’Rourke isno more electable than Kamala Harris or Elizabeth Warren and would be far less prepared to staff and run a White House. He’s never shown a commitment to progressive policies in the past, why should we trust him now? We don’t need a superstar, we need someone ready to push all-out to implement the progressive agenda.Gina Glantz, a co-founder of GenderAvenger, an organization determined to ensure “women are represented in the public dialogue,” replied to my inquiry about O’Rourke:I must admit after a few days of watching and reading about his opening gatherings I am less rather than more intrigued. To me, he exudes a sense of entitlement, which I find off-putting.How about O’Rourke and the white working class?Paul A. Sracic, a political scientist as Youngstown State University, emailed me:O’Rourke’s vague, “We all need to come together” message will not resonate with people who see life as a battle. Working class voters believe in pugilistic politics. And I suspect that O’Rourke’s punk rock background will seem odd to working class voters. These voters want to feel as if their candidates are “one of them.”Negative coverage in the press has been abundant:“The Unbearable Male Privilege of Beto O’Rourke" (The Daily Beast). He voted for Republican legislation (The Wall Street Journal). He put his adolescent fantasies into print (The Resurgent). He’s a wealthy dilettante (The National Review), an empty shell (The New Republic), a teenage hacker (USA Today), a master class in male entitlement (The Guardian).At the same time, O’Rourke has captured the imagination of millions of voters and donors.Frank Wilkinson, a former colleague of mine, wrote at Bloomberg:O’Rourke is not the only candidate modeling decency as an antidote to Trumpism. But he’s the one who has best harnessed the anxiety and rage generated by Trumpism’s assaults on democratic values and transformed them into willful, defiant optimism.Don Fowler, former chair of the Democratic National Committee, captures this feeling: “He clearly possesses a charismatic charge, a spark that few others have.” Still, Fowler goes on to enumerate O’Rourke’s liabilities:His impressive campaign for the Senate in Texas was a combination of luck and a damaged opponent. His ability to conduct an effective national campaign is totally unknown. His recent tour of the country was essentially by himself — a very poor way to test a candidate’s national potential in a crowded, competitive field. As to issues, the same unknown quality of his organizational potential characterizes his policy and ideological stances. Both major prongs of a national campaign are truly unknown and must be tested in the public crucible. Only time will tell on both policy and operational scores — wait and see.A Texas Democratic operative lavished praise on Beto, on background, in order to speak freely:O’Rourke has an intangible energy that goes beyond the litmus test. On a national scale that could be monumental. It’s emotional. It’s not tangible. Beto tapped into something with nontraditional voters. People who never publicly supported a campaign were putting Beto signs in their yard. LeBron James wore his logo on a hat.“I first saw the momentum in late spring 2018,” reports the Republican strategist Scott Reed:I live in Dallas and saw the yard signs popping up, all in front of large homes and mansions that would traditionally have been straight G.O.P. It almost became a badge of courage for many of the limousine liberals in Dallas.Reed, who ran Bob Dole’s 1996 presidential campaign, went on:His Willie Nelson event in Austin drew 50k folks and was also a strong signal to young voters — even though very few voted. His performances in the debates was exceptional and added to his momentum. Cruz was the #1 G.O.P. fund-raiser and he got swamped every quarter. I see a little Bobby Kennedy in him.Richard Murray, a political scientist at the University of Houston, was also impressed. He emailed:His appeal in Texas is a combination of an attractive persona with animated mannerisms that come across as cool and authentic to many (especially those under 35); boundless energy plus exceptional verbal skills that enable him to weave stories from folks he’s encountered on the campaign trail into compelling narratives (a rare skill) — displayed in an environment where voters in our very diverse and fast growing metropolitan areas have soured on the far right turn of Texas GOP leaders like Ted Cruz and Dan Patrick.How about a national campaign?Will this combination work in a national primary featuring the most diverse set of competitors in the nation’s history? I do not know, nor does anyone else. But the retail politics states of Iowa and New Hampshire are great places to test his road show outside the Lone Star State.Murray’s son, Keir Murray, a Democratic political consultant in Texas, added more praise:My own sense is his appeal was based, in part, on being a natural foil to Cruz (who is pretty much loathed by all but true conservatives in Texas) and by extension to Trump. O’Rourke is self-effacing, low-key guy, who comes across as fundamentally decent. I don’t think most Democrats, liberals or everyday Texans knew much about his policy positions, or cared much. They liked him. People sensed he was being himself — not perfect, not having all the answers — but honest and good-hearted.Robert Stein, a political scientist at Rice, is upbeat on O’Rourke’s prospects. He wrote me:Shortly after the November election progressives hit him hard for not backing their issue positions on guns and energy. My sense is that he is looking to avoid being defined on a left/right dimension/continuum. It seems like he is trying to define his candidacy as humane, pragmatic and capable of beating Trump.Stein argues thathe is sufficiently retail for places like Iowa and New Hampshire and if he can survive the rush before Super Tuesday, he should come out of the March primaries in the upper echelon of remaining candidates.Although O’Rourke lost the Texas Senate race to Cruz by just under 3 percent, exit polls show that he won among women, 54-46; among voters under 45, 59-40; minorities, 69-31; college graduates, 51-48; moderates, 65-34; and voters who say they are not white born-again or evangelical Christians, 61-38.While suffering from some hostile media impressions, O’Rourke has gotten his share, if not more so, of favorable press:He’s authentic, full of energy, and stripped of consultant-driven sterility (Vanity Fair). Will Beto O’Rourke Become President? (Texas Monthly). Beto O’Rourke Rivals Trump on Social Media (Newsweek). Beto O’Rourke could lead a blue wave in Texas (Vox). Beto O’Rourke blows up the 2020 Democratic primary (Politico).At the same time, some of the strongest opposition to O’Rourke — reflecting schisms within the Democratic Party — has come from women’s rights advocates, many of whom took offense at a comment he made to Vanity Fair: “Man, I’m just born to be in it.”Natasha Korecki, a Politico reporter, captured the feminist opposition to O’Rourke in her March 15 story, “‘Not one woman got that kind of coverage’: Beto backlash begins.”Korecki wrote:The breathless, sweeps-like cable television coverage that greeted the former Texas congressman’s first campaign events stunned and frustrated many Democratic operatives — particularly women — who viewed it as an example of the double standard at work in the historically diverse presidential field. To them, O’Rourke, a white, male candidate had already been anointed the next sensation, his entry into the race greased by live television shots and O’Rourke-centric panels.Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster, told Politico, “I think if you look at the pattern, there is a real distinction between the way men were covered and the way the women were covered. There’s a huge double standard,” before adding:With women, many, many more negatives were raised and the men were treated like the Second Coming. I’m surprised that this is continuing in 2019, after the year of the woman.In response to the animosity, O’Rourke indicated that he would pick a woman as his vice-presidential running mate. On March 15, he told reporters: “It would be very difficult not to select a woman with so many extraordinary women who are running right now.”O’Rourke appears to be acutely sensitive to this issue. He told Vanity Fair, before he announced his bid, that “the government at all levels is overly represented by white men,” and he didn’t leave it there:That’s part of the problem, and I’m a white man. So if I were to run, I think it’s just so important that those who would comprise my team looked like this country. If I were to run, if I were to win, that my administration looks like this country. It’s the only way I know to meet that challenge.It’s not altogether clear, however, that women currently seeking the top job would be thrilled by O’Rourke’s offer of the number two spot.Washington political professionals are also going to be a hard sell.John Lawrence, former chief of staff for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, questions whether O’Rourke is up to the challenge. Lawrence says he finds it difficultto see a white male emerging from the multicandidate pack. True, all the women/minorities could divide up the other voters, but with proportionate allocation of delegates, it’s hard to see a white male moderate emerging with a majority.“Freshness only goes so far,” Lawrence pointed out:After a year of being beat up by competitors, the press, Trump, grass roots, etc., he might not look or sound so “fresh.” He strikes me as somewhat superficial, very much a personality; I am not convinced the act sells on a national basis.Isaac Hale, a political scientist at the University of California, notes thatBeto doesn’t have the luxury of running in the Democratic presidential primary as “not Ted Cruz.” which is certainly a large part of what endeared him to Democratic voters around the country in 2018.O’Rourke, Hale observes, “is something of a blank slate that voters and party elites can project their own policy preferences onto,” a characteristic that can work to his advantage or disadvantage.Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at U.C.L.A., looked at the same issue from a different angle:The ways these races get framed depends a lot on who the candidates are and what their constraints are — if O’Rourke finds himself in a race against another young white male who is inspiring, these things won’t be a strength of his; but if he finds himself running against an older person who isn’t inspiring, they could be.Vavreck added:Your constraints are only constraints if your opponent doesn’t share them; and your strengths are only strengths if your opponent doesn’t share them. When there are 16 people vying for the nomination you have to winnow the field to be able to talk sensibly about who has advantages beyond just fund-raising and organization. Are there no other candidates who have “capacity to inspire,” “policy centrism”?In the current contest, Vavreck declared, “There are. This makes me think that these may not be unique strengths of this candidate!”Suzanne Model, a sociologist at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst who has written extensively on race and immigration, argues that O’Rourke faces an uphill battle for the nomination:O’Rourke will do well in the primaries but it is unlikely that he will win. Young, handsome and self-effacing, his charismatic manner will appeal to “non-policy wonks.” This includes traditionally-oriented women, young adults, and political moderates. In addition, his recent pro-immigrant stance, Hispanic sounding name and Texas roots should garner him support among Latinos.But, Model continued,O’Rourke’s problem is that he has little appeal to left-leaning voters or African-Americans. They watched the G.O.P. destroy a Democratic president who expressed a willingness to work with Republicans; hence, they seek a candidate who is more experienced, sophisticated and aggressive.In order to beat Trump, Model contends,The Democratic standard-bearer must carry a significant proportion of two constituencies: African Americans and working class white males. Under an O’Rourke candidacy, too many African Americans will stay home and too many working class white males will vote for Trump. Perhaps no Democratic candidate is capable of succeeding simultaneously with these two heterogeneous groups, but that is the most plausible route to a Trump defeat.Which brings us back to the existential question I raised at the beginning of this column: Can Beto O’Rourke beat Donald Trump?O’Rourke’s fund-raising success will keep him in the contest longer than less fortunate competitors, and the volume of media coverage he elicits is boosting his name recognition, a crucial first step.G. Elliott Morris, a political data reporter for the Economist, noted on Twitter that O’Rourke has received more cable news coverage in the five days since his announcement than any other candidate during the full post-announcement week. O’Rourke is on a path to get 180 percent of the coverage received by Bernie Sanders, the previous leader on this measure.While head-to-head polls are still in a larval stage, they do signal the demographic sources of support for the candidates.The most recent CNN poll, released on Tuesday, shows, for example, that the leader, Joe Biden, at 28 percent overall, gets more support from moderates than from liberals, more from older voters than young voters, more from men than women and more from whites than from minorities. Bernie Sanders, at 20 percent, is just the opposite, stronger among liberals, young voters, minorities and women.O’Rourke, at 11 percent, has a long way to go to catch up with either Biden or Sanders. But the CNN poll shows that O’Rourke’s supporters tend to be slightly more liberal than moderate, young rather than old, female rather than male, and O’Rourke gets more support from African-Americans and Hispanics than from whites. In other words, O’Rourke’s backing is tilted to constituencies that are not normally associated with a moderate white Democratic politician whose voting record, by party standards, is on the center-right.If these demographic patterns hold, O’Rourke is competing more directly with Sanders (and Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren) than with Biden.The Sanders-O’Rourke battle has already begun. Bernie Sanders loyalists have been challenging O’Rourke’s credentials for the past three months as both men seek support from younger voters.“Forces loyal to Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders are waging an increasingly public war against Texas Rep. Beto O’Rourke, the new darling of Democratic activists,” Jonathan Allen and Alex Seitz-Wald of NBC News wrote in December. “O’Rourke’s ability to connect with younger and progressive white voters,” they continued, “puts him in direct competition with the Vermont senator.”On Tuesday, Sanders announced that he has hired David Sirota, one of O’Rourke’s harshest critics, as a senior adviser and speechwriter. On Dec. 22, Sirota published a 1,700 word denunciation of O’Rourke in The Guardian that concluded,Another blank-slate Democrat who pretends there is a unifying third way between the 99 percent and the 1 percent and who refuses to take sides in big fights against corporate power — that may excite Betomaniacs, establishment Democrats and those with stakes in the status quo, but it won’t rescue our country and it won’t save the planet.For a candidate with only a modest record in national politics, O’Rourke faces a daunting but not necessarily insuperable challenge in securing the nomination. His candidacy will be a test of his charisma and “spark,” as Don Fowler put it — of the “decency” and “integrity” that a fair number of voters and observers have commented on — against the more substantial and detailed progressivism of his adversaries, the moderation of still others — and all the things we don’t know about him yet.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIt’s a crucial difference — and grounds for optimism. By Eric KaufmannMr. Kaufmann is the author of “Whiteshift: Populism, Immigration and the Future of White Majorities.”Amid the uproar over the Ralph Northam blackface photograph, a Washington Post poll asked Virginians if he should remain governor. The results were striking: Only 48 percent of whites felt that he should stay in office. That percentage was exceeded by the nearly 60 percent of black Virginians who thought Mr. Northam should remain.In another survey, part of my own research, I asked Americans whether President Trump’s wall is racist. White Democrats overwhelmingly said it was, virtually no Republicans did — and minorities placed in the middle.We find this pattern across numerous issues. And taken as a whole, it reveals something about the United States in the Trump era: The country is not divided by racial conflict, but by conflict over racial ideology. This is a crucial difference — and it is also grounds for optimism.Race pertains to communities defined by ancestry and physical appearance. Racial ideology turns instead on race as a political idea. Questions like “Should Northam resign?” or “Is the wall racist?” divide voters today by ideology far more than race. “White” is a description of a person’s race, whereas feelings about whether whites are privileged or whether diversity makes the country stronger are part of a person’s racial ideology. Liberal whites — not minorities — are setting the tone on these issues.Since 2012, white liberals have moved considerably left on questions related to race, reflecting both a campus- and online-driven cultural awakening that has accelerated in response to Mr. Trump. On the American National Election Study’s scale measuring how respondents feel about a group — white liberals are warmer toward minorities than their own racial group.Here’s how 2016 black and white voters rated their own racial group, and their black or white counterparts. Ratings are on a 0-100 scale.FEELINGS FOR:100 = FULLY POSITIVE85Theirown race80778072706950 =NEUTRALOther race590 =NEGATIVEBlackClintonvotersWhiteTrumpvotersBlackTrumpvotersWhiteClintonvotersFEELINGS FOR:100 = FULLY POSITIVE85Their own race807780727069Other race5950 = NEUTRAL0 = NEGATIVEBlackClintonvotersWhiteTrumpvotersBlackTrumpvotersWhiteClintonvotersBy The New York Times | Source: analysis of American National Election Studies data by Eric KaufmannThe share of white liberals who say racial prejudice is the main reason blacks cannot get ahead has jumped substantially since 2014.Percentage who disagreed with this statement: “Irish, Italians, Jewish and many other minorities overcame their prejudice and worked their way up. Blacks should do the same without special favors.”50%PRESIDENCY OF BILL CLINTONGEORGE W. BUSHBARACK OBAMA46%40Black3032%Whiteliberal209%10White conservative/moderate’94’96’98’00’02’04’06’08’10’12’14’1650%PRESIDENCY OF BILL CLINTON46%GEORGE W. BUSHBARACK OBAMA40Black32%30White liberal209%10White conservative/moderate’96’98’02’04’06’08’12’14’94’00’10’16By The New York Times | Source: analysis of General Social Survey by Zach Goldberg, Georgia State UniversityThis has happened as liberal thought has changed its focus from class to identity issues since the 1960s. During the civil rights era, African-Americans rallied strongly behind racial liberalism, which was a communal issue. But the connection between race and racial ideology has weakened considerably: People of color are not the driving force behind most of today’s forms of racial liberalism.The Hidden Tribes study from the More in Common organization — which groups the American electorate on the basis of its views — helps identify the leading proponents of racial liberalism: Of the seven major voting blocs, the most racially liberal are the Progressive Activists, who form just 8 percent of the population. This group is over 80 percent white and only 3 percent African-American. Similarly, a Pew Research Center report finds that the “Solid Liberals” group is overwhelmingly white, and that minority Democrats are more conservative.On the right, immigration has gained prominence as an issue, including among conservative Asians and Hispanics. But ideological sorting isn’t all about a racial divide: For example, support for immigration among Democrats has broadly risen, but that rise is much more pronounced for white Democrats than for black Democrats (and much more pronounced for Democrats than for white Republicans).Percentage of voters who said they would like to see immigration increased.White DemocratBUSHOBAMACLINTON56%50%MinorityDemocrat40383230Black Democrat20109White Republican’92’94’96’98’04’08’12’16’18White DemocratCLINTONBUSHOBAMA56%50%MinorityDemocrat40383230Black Democrat20109White Republican’92’94’96’98’04’08’12’16’18By The New York Times | Source: analysis of American National Election Studies data by Eric Kaufmann; minority Democrats include blacks, Hispanics, Asians and othersYet Trump voters rate minorities relatively warmly. Racial ideology rather than race accounts for their differences with white Democrats: White Republicans reject affirmative action, the notion of white privilege and the idea that racial discrimination continues to hold minorities back. Minorities again rank in between on many of these measures. When it comes to “microaggression” statements such as “America is a colorblind society” or “You are so articulate,” few blacks and Hispanics find these offensive while more liberal whites do.Percentage of 2018 voters who said increasing diversity made the United States better, worse, or made no difference.BETTERWORSEWhiteClintonvoter83%125563310Asian(all voters)543411Black(all voters)463816Hispanic(all voters)WhiteTrumpvoter353035NO DIFFERENCENO DIFFERENCEBETTERWORSEWhiteClintonvoter83%125Asian(all voters)563310Black(all voters)543411Hispanic(all voters)463816WhiteTrumpvoter353035By The New York Times | Source: analysis of American National Election Studies data by Eric Kaufmann. Some figures don’t add up to 100 percent because of rounding.Likewise, when asked whether it is racist or “racially self-interested, which is not racist” for whites to want less immigration to help maintain their group’s share of the population, over 90 percent of white Democrats with graduate degrees replied “racist” and close to half of minorities, compared with just an extremely small group of white Trump voters without degrees.Percentage who agreed that it is racist for a white person to want less immigration to help maintain the white share of the population.AGREE IT IS RACIST91%9White Clinton voter,postgrad degree7327All whiteClinton voters5842MinorityClinton voter4555All minority voters595White Trump voter,no degreeSEE AS RACIAL SELF-INTEREST,WHICH IS NOT RACISTAGREE IT IS RACISTSEE AS RACIAL SELF-INTEREST, WHICH IS NOT RACISTWhite Clinton voter,postgrad degree91%9All whiteClinton voters7327MinorityClinton voter58424555All minority votersWhite Trump voter,no degree595By The New York Times | Source: Eric Kaufmann, “Whiteshift”What this all shows is that America isn’t racially divided, it’s divided by racial ideology. And that’s a good thing for the country’s unity, because ideological differences, however lamentable, are less polarizing than racial conflict, in which whole communities mobilize against an enemy. A mix of races are found in each racial ideology, preventing tribe and creed from pushing in the same direction, which might lead to civil conflict. This raises the hope that American political elites can one day heal the country’s divisions.Eric Kaufmann, professor of politics at Birkbeck, University of London, is the author of “Whiteshift: Populism, Immigration and the Future of White Majorities.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Astor[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.]Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman who just joined the Democratic presidential race, gained an instant following last year when he came within three points of unseating Senator Ted Cruz.But while he was able to stand out in his Senate campaign with a broadly liberal message and no signature policy issue, that broad message is not likely to be enough in a ballooning Democratic field.This time, the specifics are going to be crucial. Here’s a look at where Mr. O’Rourke stands on some major issues.As President Trump’s proposed border wall has become one of the biggest issues in American politics, Mr. O’Rourke has made immigration the centerpiece of his speeches.In addition to supporting the Dream Act and a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, he has called for the closing of private immigrant detention centers, denounced the “militarization” of immigration enforcement and spoken out against the wall.[Beto O’Rourke announces candidacy, joins field filled with committed progressives]“We are not safe because of walls but in spite of walls,” he said at a rally in El Paso last month  held at the same time Mr. Trump was holding his own rally nearby. Far from extending a barrier across the entire border, he has said, he would like to remove the existing fencing in El Paso — one of the country’s largest border cities, and Mr. O’Rourke’s hometown.In his State of the Union address, Mr. Trump held up El Paso as an example of the need for a wall, claiming that the city had been one of the most dangerous in the United States until a border fence was built there.But the crime rate in El Paso actually fell long before the fence was built and rose afterward, and Mr. O’Rourke is holding up the city as an example of the lack of need for a wall.Mr. O’Rourke arguably first made his name when, after the shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando in 2016, he live-streamed the sit-in he and other Democratic representatives were holding on the House floor in support of stricter gun laws.The Republican-controlled Congress did not pass any gun control legislation then, but Mr. O’Rourke continues to support similar policies, including universal background checks, magazine size limits and restrictions on some semiautomatic weapons.He also opposes concealed carry reciprocity, which would make concealed carry permits granted in any state valid nationwide, forcing states with strict licensing requirements to recognize permits from states with looser standards. It is one of the National Rifle Association’s legislative priorities.While Mr. O’Rourke supports universal health care — increasingly a litmus-test position for Democratic candidates — he hasn’t committed to a specific way to get there. During his Senate campaign, he suggested that universal health care could take the form of a single-payer system or “a dual system,” in which a government-run program would coexist with private insurance.He has given conflicting messages on the most prominent proposal, “Medicare for all.”In 2017, during his time in the House, he said unequivocally, “A single-payer ‘Medicare for all’ program is the best way to ensure all Americans get the health care they need.” But during his Senate campaign, he carefully avoided those words, calling instead for “universal, guaranteed, high-quality health care for all.”He does support expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act and has urged Texas to do so. Other points in his 2018 platform included allowing the government to negotiate prescription drug prices with manufacturers and creating incentives for insurers to participate in the Affordable Care Act’s exchanges.When it comes to proposals for mitigating climate change, opponents frequently cite the potential costs of those plans. But Mr. O’Rourke has emphasized the financial impact of climate change itself. Billions of dollars that are spent on steps like sea walls, which would be critical if climate change continues unchecked, is money not spent on other priorities, he noted at a town-hall event with Columbia University students last month.At that event, Mr. O’Rourke spoke positively about the Green New Deal, calling it technically and logistically doable. As for its political prospects, “I don’t know,” he said. “That’s up to all of us, right?”He supports the Paris climate accords, and has also made a point of emphasizing effects that climate change is having: more storms like Hurricane Harvey, for instance, which devastated Texas.Mr. O’Rourke emphasized criminal justice in his 2018 campaign, focusing in particular on racial and economic inequities. In an op-ed in The Houston Chronicle, he described his own criminal record — he was arrested once for attempted forcible entry and once for drunken driving when he was in his 20s; both charges were dismissed — and argued that his success since then had been possible because of his race and economic status.“The chance that I had, and which I have made the most of, is denied to too many of our fellow Texans, particularly those who don’t look like me or have access to the same opportunities that I did,” he wrote.He called for closing private and for-profit prisons, decriminalizing marijuana and expunging the records of people previously convicted of possessing it, eliminating mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent crimes, and reforming the bail system so people charged with misdemeanors would not be incarcerated because of their inability to pay.He also emphasized rehabilitation for offenders released from prison, including the restoration of voting rights. Currently, those rights vary drastically by state.Like many of the Democratic candidates, Mr. O’Rourke has criticized Mr. Trump’s trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs, which have hurt some farmers and blue-collar workers. In his Senate campaign, he emphasized the needs of farmers, calling for a stronger crop insurance program and federal investments in rural infrastructure, including high-speed internet, roads and schools.He has also drawn connections between agricultural policy and immigration policy, noting that immigrants — many of them undocumented — make up a large share of farm laborers. On that basis, he has cast immigration reform as an economic issue as well as a social one.“We should treat these individuals with dignity and respect,” he wrote on his website last year, “because they are a critical component of our agriculture communities.”Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Tuesday adopted a strict interpretation of a federal immigration law, saying it required the detention of immigrants facing deportation without the possibility of bail if they had committed crimes, including minor ones, no matter how long ago they had been released from criminal custody.The vote was 5 to 4, with the court’s more conservative justices in the majority. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., writing for the majority, said the plain language of a federal law required the result.Justice Stephen G. Breyer summarized his dissent from the bench, a sign of profound disagreement. He said the majority had violated the nation’s basic values.“The greater importance of the case,” he said, “lies in the power that the majority’s interpretation grants the government. It is a power to detain persons who committed a minor crime many years before. And it is a power to hold those persons, perhaps for many months, without an opportunity to obtain bail.”Justice Alito said the law may be subject to constitutional challenges in individual cases, a subject that was not before the justices. It was clear, he wrote, that Congress had required the secretary of Homeland Security to take into custody immigrants released from criminal custody even if years had passed in the meantime.“An official’s crucial duties are better carried out late than never,” Justice Alito wrote.Cecillia Wang, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, which represented the immigrants challenging the law, said the decision was part of a worrisome trend.“For two terms in a row now,” she said, “the Supreme Court has endorsed the most extreme interpretation of immigration detention statutes, allowing mass incarceration of people without any hearing, simply because they are defending themselves against a deportation charge.”The case concerned a law, enacted in 1996, which included a contested phrase. It said federal authorities “shall take into custody any alien” convicted of certain crimes, some serious and some minor, “when the alien is released.” The key word was “when.”Immigrants’ rights advocates said the law required prompt detention. Lawyers for the federal government said immigrants convicted of crimes may be detained years after their release.The difference matters, for hundreds and perhaps thousands of immigrants, because people detained under the law are not entitled to a bail hearing to determine whether they are dangerous or pose a flight risk.The plaintiffs included people who entered the country illegally, tourists or students who overstayed their visas and lawful permanent residents. Among them were immigrants who arrived in the United States legally as infants, committed minor crimes like possessing marijuana and were detained years after completing their sentences.The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, concluded that the law requires mandatory detention only if the federal authorities take immigrants into custody soon after they are released.“Because Congress’s use of the word ‘when’ conveys immediacy,” Jacqueline H. Nguyen wrote for a unanimous three-judge panel, “we conclude that the immigration detention must occur promptly upon the aliens’ release from criminal custody.”Justice Alito wrote that such a strict deadline could allow local authorities opposed to federal immigration policy to frustrate the goals of the federal law.“State and local officials sometimes rebuff the government’s request that they give notice when a criminal alien will be released,” he wrote. He cited statistics indicating that there were tens of thousand of such refusals in 48 states from January 2014 to September 2016.“Under these circumstances, it is hard to believe that Congress made the secretary’s mandatory-detention authority vanish at the stroke of midnight after an alien’s release,” he wrote.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Clarence Thomas, Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh joined all or most of the majority opinion.In a concurring opinion, Justice Kavanaugh wrote that the question before the court was a narrow one.He said it was beyond dispute that the government can deport immigrants convicted of some crimes and that it can detain them during deportation proceedings.The question the court decided, he wrote, was merely whether “the executive branch’s mandatory duty to detain a particular noncitizen when the noncitizen is released from criminal custody remains mandatory if the executive branch fails to immediately detain the noncitizen when the noncitizen is released from criminal custody.”It would be odd, he wrote, for that requirement to change, for example, “if the executive branch fails to immediately detain the noncitizen because of resource constraints or because the executive branch cannot immediately locate and apprehend the individual in question.”In dissent, Justice Breyer wrote that the case was neither narrow nor technical.“Under the government’s view,” he wrote, “the aliens subject to detention without a bail hearing may have been released from criminal custody years earlier, and may have established families and put down roots in a community.”“These aliens,” Justice Breyer wrote, “may then be detained for months, sometimes years, without the possibility of release; they may have been convicted of only minor crimes — for example, minor drug offenses, or crimes of ‘moral turpitude’ such as illegally downloading music or possessing stolen bus transfers; and they sometimes may be innocent spouses or children of a suspect person.”Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan joined the dissent in the case, Nielsen v. Preap, No. 16-1363.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.Advertisement