AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Michael D. ShearWashington used to know how to have a serious debate about border security.Republicans demanded more money for Border Patrol agents and necessary fences. Democrats argued for better surveillance technology and more resources at the ports of entry. The two parties squabbled over how much to spend, how to pay for it and how it all fit into the broader struggle to overhaul the nation’s broken immigration system.But President Trump has demolished the decades-old, bipartisan understanding about how to bargain over the border. In Mr. Trump’s world, there are no alternatives that can form the basis of a legislative give-and-take, much as his allies and adversaries might hope for them. For the president, the only way to stop what he calls an “onslaught” of illegal immigrants is to erect a massive, concrete or steel barrier across the nearly 2,000-mile border with Mexico.“Drones and all of the rest are wonderful and lots of fun, but it is only a good old fashioned Wall that works!” he tweeted last month.By conjuring images of a towering stone edifice around a medieval fortress — and branding those on the outside as invaders threatening to bring crime, drugs and disease to the United States — Mr. Trump has transformed what used to be a complicated, nuanced negotiation into a take-it-or-leave-it demand, laced with xenophobia, that has shuttered nearly a quarter of the government for weeks.“He turns a debate that is fundamentally about more or less, measured in dollars, and makes it a debate that is wall or not,” said Frank Sharry, a pro-immigration activist who has battled over border security for decades in the nation’s capital. “It’s become cartoonish.”For decades, immigration has been an emotional and bitterly fought battle in Washington and around the country. But even so, there has been a consensus among most Republicans and Democrats that securing the southern border requires a mix of costly strategies. That included a large number of Border Patrol agents posted at key points along the vast stretch of land from San Diego to Brownsville, Tex., fences in urban areas and barriers to stop vehicles from crossing and high-tech surveillance gear to alert the Border Agents to the presence of migrants and drugs.Until Mr. Trump was elected, the sticking points had largely been about other parts of the broader immigration debate — cracking down on people who stay longer than their visas allow; preventing companies from hiring illegal immigrants; expanding opportunities for legal immigration; and providing status to those already in the country illegally, including immigrants brought to the United States as children.Such a comprehensive deal is completely out of reach now. But Mr. Trump’s behavior during the past several weeks suggests that even reaching a smaller, more targeted agreement on security arrangements at the border is more elusive than ever before.The current government shutdown, which began just before Christmas, is now the longest one ever in United States history. In the 22 days since the government shut down, there have been virtually no negotiations by congressional lawmakers or the White House. There have been no marathon, pizza-fueled sessions in back rooms at the Capitol. Lawmakers have not traded detailed proposals with each other. Mr. Trump refused to give an inch in his Oval Office speech, and has spent more time in an extended photo-op at the border than he has at the negotiating table.It has all left veterans of past border debates exasperated and frustrated.“We know how to secure borders,” said Alex Conant, a Republican strategist who was a top aide to Senator Marco Rubio in 2013 when the Republican senator from Florida helped lead the last major, bipartisan effort to overhaul immigration. “The 2013 immigration plan had what everybody agreed was the most effective way possible to secure borders and other points of entry.”With the backing of President Barack Obama, a bipartisan group of eight senators that year succeeded in passing a comprehensive overhaul of the nation’s immigration system. But the legislation, which passed with 68 votes, prompted fierce opposition from conservative Republicans, who condemned it as amnesty for 11 million undocumented immigrants. It was never brought up for a vote in the House.Still, the Senate legislation was an indication of where the two parties could agree on border security. It doubled the number of Border Patrol agents, from 19,000 to almost 40,000, an increase that even the authors of the proposal agreed was overkill but was designed mostly as an enticement to win Republican support.Senators from both parties also agreed on money for technological improvements along the border. The bill allocated $3.2 billion for drones, infrared ground sensors and long-range thermal imaging cameras to give Border Patrol agents advance notice when migrants cross illegally, especially at night. It also included money for an electronic employment verification system for all employers and upgrades at airports to catch immigrants who overstay their visas.And the consensus included some physical barriers — what Mr. Trump might call walls and others would call fencing. Years earlier, the Secure Fence Act of 2006 allocated money to build about 650 miles of barriers along the border. The 2013 bill, had it been signed into law, would have increased that total to almost 700 miles, mostly along the eastern half of the border with Mexico.Almost all of the fencing that Congress has approved has already been built. In populated areas, the fence is tall and steel or chain-link and designed to keep people out. In other places, the barrier is nothing more than short, metal poles spaced out to keep vehicles from driving through, or low, wooden fences that run alongside pedestrian paths.In 2011, a Government Accountability Office report concluded that despite 649 miles of completed fencing, the “the southwest border continues to be vulnerable to cross-border illegal activity, including the smuggling of humans and illegal narcotics.”The report recognized that barriers have mostly not been built in the vast, empty stretches in Texas, where rivers and mountains as natural borders have prevented cars from crossing into the United States and made the trek by foot difficult, if not impossible. But Mr. Trump seizes on conclusions like the G.A.O. report’s about the continued influx of illegal immigrants at the southern border as proof that he is right in demanding a continuous wall.In remarks to reporters after a meeting with Democrats at the White House earlier this month, Mr. Trump insisted that the only way to prevent immigrants from crossing between the 25 official ports of entry is to erect fences everywhere else.“We can’t let gaps. Because if you have gaps, those people are going to turn their vehicles, or the gangs — they’re going to coming in through those gaps,” the president said. “And we cannot let that happen.”But there continue to be questions about the wisdom of building a wall from “sea to shining sea,” even from inside Mr. Trump’s administration.A different G.A.O. report, released last year, examined the preliminary cost estimates by Customs and Border Protection of what it would cost to extend the wall along the entire border. The report criticized the border agency, saying that the cost estimates did not take into account that costs would vary depending on the kind of terrain where they were built.In recent days, the rhetoric between the two sides has become more strident than ever. Mr. Trump and his Republican allies have pointed out that Democrats supported fencing in the past, though they purposefully ignore the context of those votes and the difference between the fencing that Democrats supported and the all-or-nothing wall that the president has demanded.Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has called the wall “immoral,” cementing her position against it.“At this point, the idea we could overlook the rhetoric and get a deal done is much harder,” Mr. Sharry, the pro-immigration activist, said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — For months, President Trump has been railing about the urgent need for a wall to protect against what he calls “an invasion” of illegal immigrants flooding across the southwestern border. But he has also been delivering another message: “We need workers,” he told a group of activists recently.In other words, he wants more immigrants.“I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally,” Mr. Trump ad-libbed last month during his State of the Union address.Comments like those from the president have ignited furious criticism from his hard-line, anti-immigrant supporters who accuse him of caving to demands for cheap foreign labor from corporations, establishment Republicans and big donors while abandoning his election promise to protect his working-class supporters from the effects of globalism.“This is clearly a betrayal of what immigration hawks hoped the Trump administration would be for,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates cutting legal immigration by more than half. He warned that Mr. Trump was in danger of being “not even that different from a conventional Republican.”Breitbart News, a conservative website that promotes anti-immigrant messaging, published on Thursday the latest in a series of articles attacking Mr. Trump for catering to big business at the expense of the Americans who put him in the Oval Office. “Trump Requests ‘More’ Foreign Workers as Southern Border Gets Overrun,” the site blared on its home page.“That Mr. Trump would advance the interests of the global elite ahead of our citizens would be a tragic reversal on any day,” Lou Dobbs, the Fox Business Network host, said in a televised rant against the president on Wednesday evening. “The White House has simply lost its way.”Corporations and influential corporate conservatives such as Charles G. Koch and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have long urged the president to help them recruit the talent they need by expanding the number of workers who can enter the United States from other countries.That has become more urgent as the economy has improved and as declining unemployment has made it harder for companies to find workers. To assuage their concerns, Mr. Trump has increasingly tailored his immigration talking points to cater to the needs of business executives like those who attended a business round table on Wednesday at the White House.“We’re going to have a lot of people coming into the country. We want a lot of people coming in. And we need it,” Mr. Trump said as he sat next to Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, and other executives. “We want to have the companies grow, and the only way they’re going to grow is if we give them the workers, and the only way we’re going to have the workers is to do exactly what we’re doing.”But that message runs counter to the hard-line immigration image that Mr. Trump has carefully nurtured — most recently by shutting the government down for 35 days in a failed attempt to pressure Congress to fund a wall on the Mexican border.Mr. Trump won the White House in no small part by embracing anti-immigrant messaging that tapped into the economic fears of blue-collar workers upset about losing their jobs to foreign workers. Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, he attacked undocumented immigrants as “rapists and murderers” and called for a “big, beautiful wall” along the border with Mexico.Since becoming president, Mr. Trump has aggressively sought to crack down on illegal border crossings, increase deportations, cut the number of refugees allowed into the United States and make it harder for migrants to claim asylum. He has complained about drug dealers, gangs and members of Central American caravans pouring across the border. And last summer, his administration separated thousands of migrant children from their parents in an effort to deter Central American families from trying to seek refuge in the United States.The harsh record — and comments by Mr. Trump that disparaged African nations in vulgar terms and suggested that Haitian immigrants “all have AIDS” — has earned him the enmity of Democrats and immigration activists, who call him a racist president.It is unclear whether Mr. Trump will follow through on his recent, pro-business messaging. Many of the president’s aides — including Stephen Miller, his top immigration adviser in the White House — agree with the hard-line activists about the need to lower legal immigration.In 2017, Mr. Trump endorsed the Raise Act, a Republican Senate bill that would reduce legal immigration by as much as 50 percent. And the administration is currently considering a proposal to cut immigration by denying work authorizations, known as H-4 permits, to almost 100,000 spouses of immigrants who are brought in by companies to work legally in the United States.But even so, some of the nation’s most hard-line anti-immigration activists have become increasingly nervous that Mr. Trump might waver on their primary concern — the need to shrink the number of immigrants who enter the United States each year, currently 1.1 million.They argue that tight labor markets make it exactly the wrong time to allow more foreign workers to compete with Americans. Chris Chmielenski, the deputy director of NumbersUSA, which lobbies for lower legal immigration, said companies should be pressured to hire more Americans instead.“Anything we do now to bring in more foreign workers could actually reverse some of the economic gains over the last four years,” Mr. Chmielenski said. “We’re absolutely concerned. We feel this isn’t how he ran on the issue.”Last week, in an effort to communicate that message directly to Mr. Trump, NumbersUSA began airing an ad on Fox News Channel in the hopes that the president would get the message that his supporters do not want to let in more than one million immigrants each year.“The majority of voters say the number should be cut to 500,000 or less,” the ad said. “Americans want less immigration.”Mr. Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said that companies that no longer have access to foreign workers would have no choice but to turn to Americans who are still struggling to find work: people with disabilities, teenagers, older people and even former convicts.He also said that modest increases in wages for workers would evaporate if companies were allowed to simply tap an unlimited pool of lower-paid workers from other countries.“If you want wages to go up,” Mr. Krikorian said, “you don’t import more foreign labor.”Business groups dispute that analysis. They argue that immigration expands the amount of business activity in the United States, adding jobs and increasing wages for the vast majority of American workers.“Our country has benefited tremendously from welcoming people who have contributed to our economy, our communities, across the board,” said James Davis, a spokesman for the Koch network. “We want to welcome in everyone who wants to contribute to our society. We want to see more legal immigration.”Todd Schulte, the president of FWD.us, a pro-immigration advocacy group that started with backing from Mark Zuckerberg, a founder of Facebook, said that “immigrants and immigration increase economic growth, they increase economic productivity and they increase wages for the overwhelming number of native-born Americans.”Mr. Schulte, whose group has been highly critical of Mr. Trump’s anti-immigrant messaging and policies, welcomed the president’s recognition that legal immigration is a positive thing for the United States’ economy.But he cautioned that Mr. Trump must be measured by his actions, not his words. He called on the president to halt the effort to deny the H-4 work permits to immigrant spouses.“He should stop trying to revoke the H-4 rule,” Mr. Schulte said. “Increasing legal immigration would help native-born Americans. Unfortunately, the record has been one bent on cutting overall immigration levels.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — As President Donald Trump rails against an influx of migrants at the border, two of his most influential White House power players are at odds over the future of his immigration policy.Fresh off orchestrating a shake-up at the Department of Homeland Security, an ascendant Stephen Miller is making a renewed push to impose tougher policies at the border. That's setting up a face-off with senior adviser and presidential son-in-law Jared Kushner, who has been quietly working on his own immigration reform package for months.Their divergent approaches to the president's signature campaign issue speak to more than the ideological gulf between the two men: They echo a long-standing philosophical divide within the West Wing over how to best position the president ahead of his re-election campaign.Miller, the mastermind of the president's Muslim travel ban and other hard-line immigration policies, has long been the combative ideologue, urging Trump to take ever-more-drastic action to stanch the border flow. Kushner, whose faith in his own careful dealmaking power rivals Miller's zeal, has spent months meeting with lawmakers and interest groups, trying to put together a package of legal immigration and border security changes that Republicans can rally around heading into the 2020 presidential election.The resulting parallel tracks — one bent on implementing ever-stricter policies and another meant to forge a more palatable and unifying legislative package — have created uncertainty and confusion both inside the administration and on Capitol Hill about where Trump is headed.The conflict came into focus during a recent White House meeting when Trump effectively knighted Miller, saying the aide would oversee immigration going forward. But Kushner had already been tasked by the president with coming up with a legal immigration plan, which Trump was briefed on this week."We'll talk to you about it soon," Trump said Wednesday of Kushner's plan, labeling it "very exciting, very important for the country."Despite the aides' differing approaches, administration officials insist there is no ill will between Kushner and Miller, who have worked together over the years at the White House and on Trump's campaign. The two are among the last remaining members of Trump's tightknit 2016 team to still work at the White House and have been longtime collaborators, co-writing speeches, including the president's convention address.But for all that, the two hold fundamentally different views on immigration and notions on how Trump ought to govern.Miller, the unrelenting hard-liner, sees illegal and legal immigration as existential threats to national security and the American worker, and views Trump as a generational voice willing to make dramatic changes. Kushner, a former Democratic-leaning real estate developer, sees a broken immigration system as another intractable Washington problem that could be solved with the right deal.That leaves them working at cross purposes at times.After Trump threatened to shut down the southern border two weeks ago, Kushner was among those whom Homeland Security officials worked with to get the president to back off. Indeed, Kushner is seen within the department as someone who accepts the realities of legal limitations and can be trusted to calm Trump down, not spin him up, as they feel Miller tends to do on immigration, according to three administration officials with knowledge of the dynamic. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss internal deliberations.Senior administration officials have tried to paint Miller and Kushner's efforts as complementary — Miller addressing the day-to-day crisis at the border while Kushner looking at longer-term solutions."President Trump alone sets immigration policy that's designed to solve the humanitarian crisis at our border, prevent illegal entry into our country and protect the American people - there's no daylight between the president's team as they work to implement that agenda," spokesman Hogan Gidley said in a statement.Trump on Wednesday also challenged the notion that anyone was running his immigration policy other than him.Asked by reporters whether he had considered tapping Miller to lead Homeland Security, Trump said: "Stephen is an excellent guy. He's wonderful person." But, he added, "Frankly, there's only one person that's running it. You know who that is? It's me."But former officials said the absence of clear lines of authority and the recent purge of senior leadership at Homeland Security could create confusion, leaving the agency to implement whichever viewpoint wins the day."To whom are we listening? Who's setting the priorities?" said David Lapan, the department's former press secretary.Thad Bingel a former senior Homeland Security official, who helped shepherd outgoing Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen through her confirmation process, echoed those concerns, saying that when it's not clear who's in charge at the White House, departments and subagencies "spin their wheels a lot trying to satisfy multiple masters."Raising the stakes further is that Kushner is no mere White House aide — he's the president's son-in-law and has proven capable of forcing staff turnover at the highest level. He was instrumental in the departure of two chiefs of staff and the president's former chief strategist.Kushner's latest efforts on immigration date to early January, when Trump asked him to pursue a deal with lawmakers that would win the president more money for his border wall during the government shutdown.While White House officials caution that the plan has yet to be finalized, aides said it would include "merit based" changes to the legal immigration system as well as proposals on border security that could include modernizing ports of entry and changing the way the country detains and removes people who enter the country illegally.As part of that effort, Kushner has convened a series of informal listening sessions with almost 50 groups, including anti-immigration advocates, business and conservative groups coming together to talk through ideas. It was the same playbook he used last year on criminal justice reform, which culminated in the only major piece of bipartisan legislation the president has signed.During those meetings, Kushner was been careful not to tip his hat on his personal views. But participants say they expect the plan to include significant changes, including increases in employment-based green cards. While protections for the hundreds of thousands of so-called Dreamers brought to the country illegally as children were a major point of discussion, a senior administration official said Dreamers are not currently part of the plan.Jessica Vaughn, director of policy studies at the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates for lower immigration levels, cautioned that unveiling a major plan now would be a distraction from the immediate border crisis."The timing couldn't be worse," she said. "It's just the wrong time to be getting into a battle over this when the priority should be on fixing the border crisis and getting our enforcement on track."___Associated Press writer Colleen Long contributed to this report.___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The new chief of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) named the United States' top airport-security official, David Pekoske, his acting deputy on Thursday, as President Donald Trump overhauls the leadership of the domestic-security agency.The move, by Acting DHS Secretary Kevin McAleenan, who took office on Wednesday, temporarily fills a leadership vacuum at the top of DHS, which is responsible for everything from border protection to disaster response.But it also places further strains on an agency of 240,000 employees, many of whose top leadership posts were unfilled even before Trump's management shakeup.McAleenan remains in charge of U.S. Customs and Border Protection even as he assumes responsibility for all of DHS.Likewise, Pekoske will continue to head the U.S. Transportation Security Administration, which screens airline travelers, while he serves as the No. 2 official at DHS. Both men are serving on a temporary basis. In recent weeks, Trump has interviewed several candidates for DHS secretary, an appointee who must be confirmed by the Republican-controlled U.S. Senate. Trump has forced out top DHS officials over the past week as the agency tries to stem rising numbers of immigrants arriving at its southern border, many of them families fleeing violence and poverty in Central America. DHS said it arrested or denied entry to more than 103,000 people along the border last month, more than double the figure for March 2018.Trump has grown increasingly frustrated as DHS officials have told him that dramatic immigration changes he wants are not possible under current law, several sources say.DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen announced her departure on Sunday after clashing with Trump over border security. Her deputy, Claire Grady, stepped down on Tuesday.Trump is trying to force out L. Francis Cissna, who oversees legal immigration programs as director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, as well as John Mitnick, the top DHS lawyer, according to a source familiar with White House deliberations. Leadership is also in flux at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the U.S. Secret Service and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Ten other top positions are either vacant or filled on a temporary basis. (Reporting by Andy Sullivan; Editing by Steve Orlofsky)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanThe Trump administration is preparing to shutter many of its immigration operations abroad, cutting back on a key support system for those applying overseas to relocate to the United States.The director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, L. Francis Cissna, told senior staff members this week that the international division, which has operations in more than 20 countries, would close down by the end of the year, according to two people with knowledge of the meeting.Agency officials said the move was intended to provide more staff resources to handle the lengthy backlog in asylum applications from tens of thousands of migrants crossing the southern border every month. But it could come at the expense of legal migration, which President Trump has said he favors: Some agency staff members said closing overseas offices will make it more difficult and time-consuming to apply to immigrate from abroad, especially for refugees already in the United States who hope to bring other family members to join them.“This is another instance of the Trump administration halting legal immigration by denying people the opportunity to file for immigration benefits in the most expedient manner,” said Margaret Stock, a retired United States Army lieutenant colonel and an immigration attorney who frequently handles such cases.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The overseas division provides logistical assistance to American citizens, lawful permanent residents and refugees seeking to bring family members to the United States; people who have been persecuted and wish to resettle in the United States; Americans who adopt children internationally; and members of the military and their families applying for citizenship. It also plays a crucial role in immigration fraud detection.“It will be a great blow to the quality and integrity of the legal immigration system,” said Barbara Strack, who retired last year as the chief of the Refugee Affairs Division at the agency. “It will throw that system into chaos around the world.”The International Operations Division has about 240 employees working at 24 field offices in 21 countries.Jessica Collins, a spokeswoman for the agency, said the proposed reorganization would shift the agency’s workload to other offices but not necessarily cut back on its operations. “As we have internally shared, U.S.C.I.S. is in preliminary discussions to consider reallocation of its international U.S.C.I.S. office workloads to U.S.C.I.S. domestic offices in the United States and, where practicable, to U.S. embassies and consulates abroad,” she said in response to emailed questions.“The goal of any such shift would be to maximize U.S.C.I.S. resources that could then be reallocated, in part, to backlog reduction efforts,” said Ms. Collins, who declined to elaborate further.In recent months, the agency — which is primarily funded by fees paid by applicants, not by American taxpayers — has been reassigning adjudicators who handle green card and naturalization applications to process a bulging backlog of asylum claims filed by migrant families arriving at the southern border in record numbers.“It is definitely not a preliminary discussion. It’s happening,” said a senior lawyer with the agency, noting that an international-operations training course scheduled in two weeks was canceled and that officers were told to return to their former jobs.The staff member, who was not authorized to speak with the news media and spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that the work would either be done by temporary rotational staff “if absolutely needed, or pushed to the State Department, if the State Department is willing.”A spokeswoman for the State Department referred all questions to Citizenship and Immigration Services.In cities like Amman, Bangkok and Nairobi, staff with the agency’s International Operations Division conduct interviews with refugees whose relatives are already living in the United States and who wish to sponsor them for immigration, a process already plagued with delays because of additional layers of screening added under Mr. Trump’s travel ban targeting certain nations.International staff also provide logistical support to teams of refugee officers who travel abroad on so-called circuit rides to interview refugees who have applied to be resettled in the United States, many of whom have remained in refugee camps for years.“These refugee family members in East Africa have already faced tremendous delays in their cases, and this change will only make it worse,” said an agency staff member, who was not authorized to speak with the news media. “This is a disaster for them.”The primary obligation of the international operations office in Bangkok, for example, is to handle refugee applications. “The demise of this office will mean that refugees will be cast adrift, literally,” said Diane Butler, an immigration lawyer in Seattle who visited that district office, which oversees all of Asia, in late February. She said that a new district director had been transitioning into the new position. “There was no hint of this,” she said.The changes at U.S.C.I.S. come as the president’s proposed budget for the next fiscal year proposes cutting State Department funding for humanitarian assistance overseas, prompting concern from refugee advocates.Mr. Trump’s spending plan, which is likely to face deep resistance on Capitol Hill, would reduce the State Department budget for humanitarian spending from about $9.1 billion to about $6 billion, according to budget documents released this week by the administration.In addition, the budget proposal would virtually eliminate funding for the State Department’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, which for years has worked to help refugees resettle in the United States. The budget would transfer most of the money to a new program jointly administered by the United States Agency for International Development and the secretary of State.“At a time where there have never been more forcibly displaced people in recorded history, this administration came to Capitol Hill and with a straight face said they were proposing a cut in humanitarian assistance of more than one-third,” said Eric Schwartz, the president of Refugees International, an advocacy organization.“It’s all about the fact that the president has communicated that he doesn’t like refugees coming to the United States,” Mr. Schwartz said. “His administration is carrying out that obstruction in a determined way.”Mr. Trump said in his State of the Union address last month that the United States needed legal immigrants. But his focus remains on fortifying the border, and the latest move is one of a series of policy moves that will have the effect of curbing legal immigration. His administration has slashed the number of refugees that can be admitted, narrowed who is eligible for asylum and made it more difficult to qualify for permanent residency or citizenship.Under Mr. Cissna, who has crafted a number of measures to tighten immigration rules, the citizenship agency has taken on an unprecedented enforcement role. Last year, it established a “denaturalization task force” to strip citizenship from those found to have obtained it by fraudulent means. It has also drafted regulations to no longer allow spouses of those in the country on guest worker visas to obtain work permits.The elimination of the international division would have the most potential impact on family reunification, the cornerstone of the country’s immigration system for five decades, which Mr. Trump derisively refers to as “chain migration.”Transferring the workload to already overburdened staff at the State Department and the citizenship agency’s domestic offices could lead to long delays, several agency officials and immigration lawyers said, keeping many applicants stranded abroad for months or longer as they and their loved ones navigate the necessary red tape needed to immigrate.To the extent that work can be completed domestically or electronically, it has already been transferred, the current and former officials said.“Its core mission is family reunification,” said Justin Cox, senior supervising attorney at the International Refugee Assistance Project in New York. “In the best of circumstances, it is going to cause significant delays across the board. In the worst of circumstances, it could keep families apart for years.”United States military personnel abroad would no longer be able to file immigrant visa petitions for spouses and family members locally.“It’s going to smack all government employees abroad, including folks in the military, who have a foreign spouse or kids they are trying to bring to the U.S. legally,” said Ms. Stock, who handles a number of such cases in her immigration practice.She said that one of her clients, an American defense contractor living on a military base in Kuwait who married a Yemeni woman, could be forced to remain apart from his wife for an extended period of time after returning to the United States if he cannot apply for her green card abroad.“If he can’t get it through international operations, he will be thrown into the general U.S. backlog and have to be separated from his wife for more than a year,” Ms. Stock said.The average processing time for all cases at Citizenship and Immigration Services surged by 46 percent over the past two fiscal years and 91 percent since 2014, according to the American Immigration Lawyers Association.Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersNEW YORK — Democratic U.S. mayors said on Friday their cities would welcome illegal immigrants, dismissing President Donald Trump's threats to transport people detained at the border to "sanctuary cities" as illustrating the White House's callous approach to the issue.Trump confirmed on Twitter that he wanted to transport people detained in his immigration crackdown at the U.S.-Mexico border to sanctuary cities, an informal designation for localities that refrain from assisting federal immigration authorities in detaining people living in the country illegally.Mayors from across the country were quick to respond to Trump's latest portrayal of immigrants and sanctuary cities as threats.In New York City, where nearly 40 percent of the population are immigrants, Mayor Bill de Blasio said Trump's immigration policy was rooted in cruelty."He uses people like pawns," de Blasio said in a statement. "New York City will always be the ultimate city of immigrants – the President's empty threats won't change that."In Philadelphia, known as the city of brotherly love, Mayor Jim Kenney said in a statement that his city "would be prepared to welcome these immigrants just as we have embraced our immigrant communities for decades." He said the White House was demonstrating "the utter contempt that the Trump Administration has for basic human dignity."The Republican president has made cracking down on illegal and legal immigration a centrepiece of his administration, and has regularly threatened to try to cut federal funding to programmes in generally Democratic-leaning sanctuary cities, counties and states."Due to the fact that Democrats are unwilling to change our very dangerous immigration laws, we are indeed, as reported, giving strong considerations to placing Illegal Immigrants in Sanctuary Cities only," Trump wrote on Twitter, confirming a Washington Post report. The mayor of Los Angeles, Eric Garcetti, responded by saying on Twitter: "These are people, not pawns, Mr. President."At least one governor, New Mexico's Michelle Lujan Grisham, weighed in, calling the plan "absurd, sad and all too characteristic of the president — not to mention indicative of a complete and cruel indifference to the plight of migrant families."The mayors of Oakland, California, and Takoma Park, Maryland, voiced similar reactions.Trump's latest move on immigration comes days after U.S. officials said they arrested or denied entry to over 103,000 people along the border with Mexico in March, more than twice as many as the same period last year."I am shocked but not surprised that once again this president is playing a cynical game with people's lives in order to score political points," Jesse Arreguin, the mayor of Berkeley, California, said in a statement. "Rather than supporting a real pathway to citizenship for the millions of immigrants in this country, he is fanning the flames of division." (Reporting by Jonathan Allen; editing by Jonathan Oatis and Leslie Adler)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFRONT PAGEAn article on Monday about the relationship between President Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu misstated the surname and position of a journalist at The Forward. She is Batya Ungar-Sargon, not Ungar-Garson, and she is The Forward’s opinion editor, not a columnist.•An article on Saturday about the conviction of the former executive Edward P. Mangano and his wife, Linda, referred incorrectly to the couple’s first trial. Witnesses testified about Richard Walker, the former deputy executive of Nassau County; it is not the case that Mr. Walker himself testified. It also referred incorrectly to the benefits that prosecutors said Mr. Mangano received from a restaurateur. He was not accused of receiving free limousine rides.INTERNATIONALAn article on Monday about the victims of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 misidentified a United Nations agency whose employees were among the victims in the Ethiopian Airways plane crash. It is the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, not the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights.NATIONALAn article on Saturday about anti-immigration groups that have expressed dismay over President Trump’s recent comments on legal immigration misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.NEW YORKBecause of an editing error, a headline with an article on Monday about bishops across the country acknowledging their failures in the Roman Catholic Church’s sexual abuse crisis misstated a quotation by Archbishop Leonard P. Blair of Hartford, who was offering a special Mass of Reparations at a parish in Guilford, Conn., last month. He said, “I ask forgiveness of God,” not “I ask forgiveness from God.”SPORTSA picture caption in an article on Monday about the golfer Rory McIlroy’s defeat at the Arnold Palmer Invitational misidentified Mr. McIlroy’s partner in the final pairing. It was Matthew Fitzpatrick, not Francesco Molinari.ARTSAn article on March 2 about movies and television shows to stream this month misstated the premiere date of “Shrill.” It is March 15, not March 8.SPECIAL SECTION: THE ARTFUL HOMESeveral picture captions in an article on Thursday about North African-inspired design misspelled the surname of a Tangier-based interior designer. He is Frank de Biasi, not Frank DiBiasi.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Monday about the artist Carolee Schneemann misstated the surname of a co-founder of a gallery that represented her. She is Wendy Olsoff, not Osloff.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Thursday called for bipartisan talks aimed at bolstering asylum laws and addressing border security, issuing a bid for negotiations amid a surge of migrants crossing the southwestern U.S. border and daily outcries by President Donald Trump about the need to clamp down on immigration."What we need to do is sit down in a serious, adult, bipartisan basis and try to fix the problem, because the problem is pretty obvious," McConnell, R-Ky., told reporters. "Border security is a part of it, but that doesn't solve the asylum issue, and that can't be solved, I don't think, without some kind of statutory adjustment."McConnell's statement underscored the political pressures facing lawmakers amid a steady diet of news reports about federal agencies being overwhelmed by the sheer numbers of people trying to enter the U.S. from Mexico. Trump has shaken up his team atop the Department of Homeland Security, imposed new policies to curb the numbers of people being processed for entry, complained that asylum laws and too lax and asserted that the country is "full."The prospects that serious talks will be held, let alone prove successful, are murky. Congress has not approved sweeping immigration legislation in decades. Democrats believe Trump merely wants to use the border problem as an issue in his re-election bid next year, and the approach of the presidential election means the curtain for substantive compromises on any issues will fall in just a few months.By international law, nations are supposed to let asylum seekers stay in their countries if they have legitimate, specific fears of persecution or danger if they return home.The U.S. Border Patrol said it apprehended 92,607 people at the U.S.-Mexico border in March. That included just over 53,000 who were parents and children traveling together, largely from Central America, which it calls a record for family members.McConnell said negotiators would determine if the talks would also address other issues including the status of young "Dreamers" brought to the U.S. illegally as children,"I would like to see some serious bipartisan discussions going on to try to solve as many of these problems as we can agree to solve," he said.Asked if he'd discussed possible talks with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., McConnell said, "Well, yeah, we're talking about a variety of different things. We'll see what happens."A Schumer aide asked for comment did not immediately provide the Democrat's reaction.Last year talks between bipartisan senators and the White House failed to produce an immigration deal after Trump insisted on restrictions on legal immigration, which Democrats opposed.In an indication of how difficult such talks might be, Vice President Mike Pence said Thursday that besides making sure border agents have the resources they need, Congress must "close loopholes" that drive Central American families to seek asylum here.While touring the southern border in Arizona, Pence also said the administration wants to be able to return people more quickly to Central America and have more flexibility in detaining some migrants. He did not provide specifics.In the past, Democrats have had little interest in making it easier for Trump to eject or detain immigrants.___Associated Press writer Astrid Galvan in Phoenix, Arizona, contributed to this report.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNot so long ago, the party had a clear platform. It no longer does.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.The Democratic Party no longer has a clear policy on immigration.It used to, not so long ago. The party’s leaders knew what they favored and felt comfortable saying so. Their platform generally included: 1) a path to citizenship for immigrants who came to this country illegally but had since obeyed the law; 2) deportation of undocumented immigrants who had since broken the law in significant ways; 3) fairly robust border security and investigation of companies employing undocumented immigrants, to hold down current and future levels of illegal immigration.Besides favoring these policies, Democrats were also willing to talk about the benefits of limiting immigration and of assimilation. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Consider this 2015 statement from Bernie Sanders: “What right-wing people in this country would love is an open-border policy … I don’t believe in that. I think we have to raise wages in this country.”Or this 2006 line from Barack Obama, in his book, “The Audacity of Hope”: “When I see Mexican flags waved at pro-immigration demonstrations, I sometimes feel a flush of patriotic resentment.”Or this comment last year from Hillary Clinton: “I think Europe needs to get a handle on migration.” It earned her immediate condemnation from progressives and a scathing story in The Times.I understand why the Democratic Party has moved to the left on immigration policy over the past few years. It is, in significant part, an honorable reaction to Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant racism and a desire to stand up for immigrants during his presidency. The Trump administration has separated immigrant children from their parents, and Democrats are trying to protect those families.What’s less clear to me is exactly what the Democratic Party’s new position on immigration is.Questions to answerAmong the questions that I’d like Democrats to answer:What kind of border security do you believe in? Do you favor the policies Obama put in place to reduce illegal immigration — or a different approach?Do you believe that immigrants who enter this country illegally should be allowed to stay? If not, which categories of undocumented immigrants should be at risk of deportation? (In a 2016 debate, Clinton and Sanders didn’t offer clear answers when Univision’s Jorge Ramos asked similar questions.)What do you believe should happen to future levels of legal immigration? And what should happen to the mix of different categories of immigration? Should family connections play as large a role as they now do? Should workplace skills continue to play a small role?Do you believe, as Sanders suggested in 2015, that more immigration can reduce wages, especially for lower-income workers and recent immigrants themselves?My own view is that the country benefits from significant limits on immigration. As David Frum notes in a recent cover story for The Atlantic, immigration levels were quite low for much of the 20th century — from roughly the 1910s through the 1970s. The slowdown helped many of the immigrants who arrived in the waves before 1910 (including parts of my family). They faced less competition in the labor market. Labor unions were more easily able to grow, because they were organizing an increasingly assimilated workforce. The immigration slowdown played a role in the great income surge of the post-World War II decades. Today, I’d favor a policy with a lot of similarities to the Democrats’ platform of the Obama years, including humane treatment of immigrants already here plus tight border security. I’d change the mix of immigration, to let in fewer low-skills immigrants and more high-skills immigrants. Doing so has the potential to reduce inequality and lift economic growth.I recognize that this platform is probably too conservative for many Democrats. But high levels of immigration, stretching over many decades, is not an American tradition. It’s something new, and it brings both upsides and downsides.For anyone who wants to think through the subject, I recommend Frum’s article. (The politician quotations above come from it.) For critiques of Frum’s piece, see Nancy LeTourneau in Washington Monthly and Noah Smith of Bloomberg Opinion.If nothing else, I’d urge Democrats to look at public opinion on immigration with an open mind. The polling isn’t as favorable as some of the recent conversation on the left has suggested. In a recent Gallup poll, 47 percent of Americans called illegal immigration a critical threat and another 30 percent called it an important threat.I wouldn’t call it either of those. But I do think it’s folly — both substantively and politically — to pretend that more immigration is always better than less. And I think it’s a mistake for Democrats to be so unclear about what their party’s immigration agenda is.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Under pressure to show they have solutions, Democrats are honing proposals to address the surge of families entering the U.S. at the southern border, a problem they say President Donald Trump's restrictive immigration policies are enflaming.House Democrats plan to introduce legislation soon addressing the recent waves of Central American migrants reaching the border. Senate Democrats are pursuing multiple tracks, including exploring whether talks with the White House might be feasible.The House measure, described by lawmakers, aides and lobbyists, would stand virtually no chance of winning approval by the Republican-led Senate, let alone getting Trump's signature. But it would let Democrats show voters they're responsive to the rush of migrants that has overwhelmed federal officials and left border communities struggling to cope — rather than simply objecting to Trump's moves.The bill, which participants said is still being finalized, is expected to increase federal resources at border entry points for processing refugees, counseling children and treating people needing medical care. It would create centers in Central America where asylum applications could be processed and provide aid to reduce poverty and violence in the region so fewer people would flee."You don't just wait for people to show up at the border. It's the worst way to deal with it," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., who's working on the legislation with House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., and party leaders.The measure represents Democrats' effort to find the sweet spot between addressing a burgeoning humanitarian crisis and not lending credibility to Trump's assertion that hordes of immigrants are invading the country. They say Trump has exacerbated the situation by aggressively detaining migrants caught entering the U.S. illegally and slowing the processing of asylum seekers, which can take months or longer."This is a manufactured crisis," said Rep. Ruben Gallego, D-Ariz.Trump has accused Democrats of "obstructing." He complained Tuesday about their refusal to tighten asylum laws, restrict legal immigration by relatives of migrants already here or ban the release of detained migrants until their court dates — a practice used by recent administrations, including his own."They don't want to act," Trump said.In the Senate, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., a senior member of the Judiciary committee, said she plans to introduce a bill that would beef up immigration courts to reduce a huge backlog of cases and prohibit separations of migrant families . The measure would face an uphill climb.Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., said Democrats were in early discussions about what legislation to craft and were trying to arrange meetings with the White House on the issue. But he cautioned that last year's collapse of immigration talks with Trump did not bode well."This president is not an easy person to work with on this subject," said Durbin, Senate Democrats' No. 2 leader.No one disputes that the number of migrants seeking entry into the U.S. is swelling. Authorities were expecting to prevent 100,000 people, mostly families, from crossing the southern border last month, the most in 12 years.In response, Trump has moved to cut nearly $500 million in aid to Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador, whose citizens have trekked toward the U.S. in growing numbers. He has curbed the number of asylum applications that authorities process. He has been blocked by a federal court from forcing refugees to wait in Mexico while their cases are decided. And he has warned he'll close the southwest border, a threat he's intermittently eased and renewed.Frustrated with his team's resistance to carry out some of his policy proposals, he's also replaced Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen and moved to purge other top officials at the department. Democrats, joined by many Republicans, said Trump's shake-up was unwise."He doesn't like the law," said No. 2 House leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md. "And he's firing people who are determined that they have to act within the confines of the law. I think that's very dangerous."Trump says the U.S. faces a security and humanitarian calamity. In a letter to lawmakers last month, Nielsen asked for "immediate congressional assistance" to address "a system-wide meltdown." She requested funds for more detention beds, medical teams and processing facilities but specified no dollar amounts.Democrats are skeptical of such requests."They've already taken and transferred money from things to their ridiculous wall," said Rep. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., referring to Trump's effort to build a border wall that Democrats have mocked as ineffective. "It's pretty difficult for me to say I'd give them more. I'd have a lot more accountability built in, and I'd cut the amount we're giving to Homeland Security until they can show us they really need it."Democrats contend that Trump's goal is to rile up his conservative voters as his 2020 re-election campaign gets underway."He's shown that over and over, he's just anti-immigrant. And this is a campaign talking point for him," said Rep. Nanette Barragan, D-Calif.Republicans say Democrats are simply out to block Trump."They don't want to give Trump any victory on anything, ever," said Rep. John Katko, R-N.Y., a member of the House Homeland Security Committee.___Associated Press writer Darlene Superville contributed to this report.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensAn undocumented immigrant who worked at one of President Trump’s golf clubs in New Jersey for years and recently spoke out about her experience will attend his State of the Union address after being invited by her Democratic congresswoman, the woman’s lawyer and the congresswoman’s office said Wednesday.The undocumented immigrant, Victorina Morales, had worked as a housekeeper at the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N.J., since 2013, and spoke to The New York Times as part of an article published last month. The report revealed that the president’s company — the Trump Organization — was, for years, employing people at the golf club who are in the country illegally.In a brief interview on Wednesday, Ms. Morales said that on the advice of her lawyer, she stopped going to work on Dec. 4, two days before the Times article was published. Still, the lawyer, Anibal Romero, said that neither he nor his client had received notice that she had been fired. He said Ms. Morales’s employment status with the golf club was not entirely clear.Since leaving her job, Ms. Morales, who is from Guatemala, has campaigned for rights and fair treatment for undocumented immigrants. On Wednesday, she said she was pleased to have been invited to the State of the Union, that she has accepted the invitation and that she was “very proud because I am going to raise my voice for all of us immigrants.”“I’m not scared to show my face,” she said, speaking in Spanish. “I am not speaking for me, I’m speaking on behalf of millions of undocumented immigrants who live in the United States.”The congresswoman, Bonnie Watson Coleman, represents the New Jersey district in which Ms. Morales lives. The news that Ms. Morales had been invited to attend Tuesday’s State of the Union address as Ms. Watson Coleman’s guest was reported by The Washington Post on Wednesday.“Immigrants by and large are hardworking, trustworthy and skilled people who simply want to work and build better lives here,” Ms. Watson Coleman said in a statement. “For years these kinds of people were loyal and dedicated enough to be Trump Organization employees. I hope that in his State of the Union address, Donald Trump will finally acknowledge the real face of immigrants in this country — women and children fleeing violence; law-abiding, taxpaying people who would do almost anything to be Americans. And if he can’t, I’ve invited Victorina so that he may look her in her eyes to tell his lies to a familiar face.”The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wednesday evening.Mr. Trump has made border security and protecting jobs for Americans cornerstones of his presidency, and his insistence on building a border wall led to the recent partial government shutdown. He has labeled illegal immigration “a major, major problem,” and pledged to build a border wall while his administration has carried out workplace raids and payroll audits.The Times article, published Dec. 6, said undocumented immigrants had been employed for years at the Trump National Golf Club as housekeepers, landscapers and kitchen staff. It also said they were kept on the payroll even though management was aware they had used phony documents to secure employment, as is common among undocumented immigrants.Ms. Morales previously told The Times that a manager at Bedminster had helped her secure a new fake Social Security number and legal permanent-residency card after telling her that those on file had expired.Since the article was published, about a dozen workers deemed ineligible to work in the United States because they lacked legal immigration status have been terminated at the Bedminster club, according to people familiar with the matter.Another dozen were fired at the Trump National Golf Club in Westchester County, N.Y., this month, a development first reported by The Washington Post.The Trump Organization also said late Tuesday that it was putting in place a system to weed out undocumented immigrants who try to get jobs at its properties.“I must say, for me personally, this whole thing is truly heartbreaking,” Eric Trump, an executive vice president with the Trump Organization, said in the statement on Tuesday. “Our employees are like family, but when presented with fake documents, an employer has little choice.”He said that hiring undocumented immigrants was not a problem unique to the Trump Organization, and that it “demonstrates that our immigration system is severely broken and needs to be fixed immediately.”Miriam Jordan contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy any reasonable metric, “mass” immigration is a myth. The reality is that America desperately needs to pick up the pace of immigration for its economic health.By Shikha DalmiaMs. Dalmia is a senior analyst at Reason Foundation, a writer at Reason magazine and a columnist at The Week.President Trump has shut down the government to get money for a border wall that he says will stop illegal immigration. But the fact of the matter is that that’s not all he wants to stop. During the three-day shutdown last January, he demanded a 40 percent reduction in legal immigration, arguing that America has been swamped by immigrants. “There’s a limit to how many people a nation can responsibly absorb into their societies, ” he has declared.He is not alone in invoking this boogeyman. That America is being overwhelmed by a flood of immigrants has become conventional wisdom across the political spectrum, presented in books from, on the right, Reihan Salam of National Review, the son of Bangladeshi immigrants; in the center, Francis Fukuyama of Stanford, whose mother immigrated from Japan; and on the left, Jefferson Cowie of Vanderbilt University, who actually counsels his fellow progressives not to fear more immigration.But by any reasonable metric, the idea that America is experiencing mass immigration is a myth. The reality is that we desperately need to pick up the pace of immigration to maintain our work force and economic health.You could argue that mass immigration — a vague term with no set definition — is happening in Lebanon and Jordan, primary destinations for refugees escaping Syria’s civil war. Lebanon, which had about 4.4 million people in 2010, has admitted in just a few years around one million Syrian refugees, which works out to around 23 percent increase in its population.In America, by contrast, there are about 44 million foreign-born people who now constitute about 13.7 percent of the population, according to the Pew Research Foundation. This is close to the historic high of 15 percent at the turn of the 20th century. Why is that considered a meaningful benchmark? Because at that time the United States, responding to nativist and union pressure, embraced strict border controls, essentially ending what had until then been an open borders policy.Literacy tests were instituted in 1917, and the 1924 Johnson-Reed Act imposed national-origins quotas limiting visas to 2 percent of the total number of people of each nationality in the United States as of the 1890 census. The purpose of this legislation was to cut back immigration overall, especially from Eastern Europe and Asia — and it succeeded spectacularly.Congress finally eliminated these quotas, which had widely come to be regarded as racist, in 1965, and immigration subsequently picked up. But immigration opponents have made the 15 percent foreign-born figure a tipping point, as if it were based on science instead of being an arbitrary historical event. If it were indeed a tipping point, countries would regularly experience a backlash once the immigrant population approached that level. That is far from the case.America’s share of the foreign born ranks 34th among 50 wealthy countries with a per capita gross domestic product of over $20,000. The United States netted five new immigrants — authorized and unauthorized — per 1,000 people from 2015 to 2017, United Nations figures show. Compare that to the figures in two other English-speaking liberal democracies: Canada let in eight (and just announced that it’s going to admit over a million new immigrants over three years), and Australia 14. All in all, the foreign-born are now over 20 percent of Canada’s population and 28.2 percent of Australia’s (more than double America’s figure). And yet they haven’t inspired the sort of public condemnation of immigration that often occurs in the United States. America has also taken in a relatively modest numbers of immigrants over the last half-century. In 1965, when Congress got rid of national-origin quotas, America’s foreign-born made up around 5 percent of the population. Over two decades from 1980 to 2000, this proportion rose to 11.1 percent, from 6.2 percent, not insignificant but not particularly noteworthy.But then the rate of increase slowed to a crawl, rising from 11.1 percent in 2000 to 12.9 percent in 2010 and then barely inching to 13.5 percent in 2016. In other words, in six years, America’s foreign-born population inched up 0.6 percent. Yet the more America’s (modest) immigration decelerates, the more the mass immigration trope accelerates.A good yardstick for whether a country is admitting too many or too few immigrants — beyond the political mood of the moment — is its economic needs. If America were admitting too many immigrants, the economy would have trouble absorbing them. In fact, the unemployment rate among immigrants, including the 11 million undocumented, in 2016, when the economy was considered to be at full employment, was almost three-quarters of a point lower than that of natives. How can that be evidence of mass immigration?The truth is that America is a low-immigration nation. Demographic trends in America point to a severe labor crunch that’ll become a huge bottleneck for growth unless the country opens its doors wider.It has long been clear that the dropping fertility rates of native-born white Americans meant that the generations coming after the millennials were on track to be much smaller. From 2015 to 2035, the number of working-age Americans with domestic-born parents is expected to fall by eight million. Furthermore, the Census Bureau in 2017 quietly revised downward its population forecast for 2050 by a whopping 50 million people from its 2008 estimates, as Jack Goldstone, a political demographer at George Mason University, pointed out. Why? Because immigration from Mexico dwindled after the Great Recession at the same time that Hispanic fertility rates dropped by a quarter as well. At the current rate that America is admitting immigrants, this means that the total work force will grow only 0.3 percent per year. Unless American birthrates pick up suddenly and expand the work force — an unrealistic assumption given that the country just set a record for low fertility — or the productivity of its dwindling work force quickly doubled, only slightly less unrealistic, says Mr. Goldstone, the United States will be staring at real G.D.P. growth of less than 1.6 percent per year in less than a decade, all else remaining equal.America should be admitting a million more immigrants per year — more than double the current number from now until 2050. This still won’t add up to mass immigration because it would put America’s foreign-born population that year at around 26 percent, less than Australia’s is today.Fifteen years ago when I was writing about immigration for the conservative editorial page of The Detroit News, the myth that America was being overwhelmed by immigrants had retreated mostly to nativist activist circles. Just because it has spread now does not mean it’s true. It’s a myth that should be killed before it kills the American dream.Shikha Dalmia is a senior analyst at Reason Foundation, a writer at Reason magazine and a columnist at The Week.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — President Trump, facing a growing public backlash over the partial government shutdown, shifted course on Saturday and offered Democrats a deal: temporary protections for roughly 700,000 young undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a wall along the southern border.But the proposal, which Mr. Trump unveiled in a 13-minute address from the White House, appeared dead on arrival in the Capitol. Speaker Nancy Pelosi rejected it even before Mr. Trump spoke, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, denounced the offer as “not a compromise but more hostage taking.”With the shutdown entering its fifth week and polls showing a majority of the public blaming Mr. Trump, the president’s advisers have been searching for an exit strategy. Saturday’s speech grew out of talks that Vice President Mike Pence and the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, have had in recent days with lawmakers including Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader.The proposal was Mr. Trump’s first public offer to Democrats since the partial shutdown began nearly a month ago. It came after an acrimonious week of tit-for-tat politics, in which Ms. Pelosi told the president he could not deliver his State of the Union address in the Capitol until the shutdown was over, and the president retaliated by grounding a plane that was supposed to take Ms. Pelosi on a fact-finding mission to Afghanistan.In casting the plan as a compromise, the president sought to shift pressure to Democrats — who have repeatedly refused to give Mr. Trump any money for his border wall — to end the shutdown. But Democrats continued to insist they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump over border security until the government reopens.Over the course of his administration, Mr. Trump has repeatedly sought to curb both legal and illegal immigration. He has revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., which offers crucial protections for immigrants, for people from some Latin American and African countries. And he has moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, an Obama-era program that shielded the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation.In the deal he outlined on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore T.P.S. protection for 300,000 people, and said he would allow 700,000 Dreamers to keep their protections for three more years in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border barrier.“That is our plan,” Mr. Trump said. “Border security, DACA, T.P.S. Many other things. Straightforward, fair, reasonable and common sense with lots of compromise.” The proposal, Mr. Trump added, was intended to “break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward.”The speech was the second time during the shutdown that the president addressed the nation about the immigration crisis. But unlike his first address, a prime-time broadcast from the Oval Office that leaned heavily on dark messaging about the dangers of crime and illegal drugs flowing across the border, Mr. Trump seemed on Saturday to soften his tone.He paired the address with his first naturalization ceremony at the White House, a move intended to underscore the idea that he supports legal immigration. And his language was markedly different; instead of insisting on the “big beautiful wall” he promised during his 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump took care to use the word “barrier” as well — and seemed to pare back his vision for it.Calling the wall “a powerful and beautifully designed see-through steel barrier on our southern border,” Mr. Trump said: “This is not a 2,000-mile concrete structure from sea to sea. These are steel barriers in high priority locations. Much of the border is already protected by natural barriers such as mountains and water.”Mr. Trump noted that he had adopted some Democratic proposals on border security. The president proposed $800 million for humanitarian assistance and $805 million for drug detection technology, in addition to funding for 2,750 more border agents and law enforcement officials and 75 new immigration judge teams.In her talking points, issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosi said her party favored “new drug, weapons and contraband scanning technology at official ports of entry,” and “filling the more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers.” Ms. Pelosi also intends to bring up legislation in the coming days that includes an additional $1 billion for border security, including $563 million for 75 new immigration judges and support staff.Even so, Democrats roundly criticized the president’s plan. They were particularly incensed that Mr. Trump’s offer extended protections to Dreamers and T.P.S. recipients that he himself revoked. And they said the deal was a nonstarter because it did not offer any permanent protections for Dreamers.“I think it’s simply more fake promises raising false hopes,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said. “It will fool few Americans because it’s neither serious nor credible as a real remedy for Dreamers.”Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.Some on the right also pushed back, describing the proposal as amnesty. James Carafano, a national security expert at the Heritage Foundation who worked on Mr. Trump’s transition, was among the critics. “Amnesty encourages further illegal immigration, incentivizes the tragedy of human trafficking and undermines our citizens’ confidence in the rule of law,” he said.Mr. Pence, briefing reporters after Mr. Trump’s remarks, said the speech reflected a painstaking process of listening to lawmakers, including rank-and-file Democrats who made it clear they believed that protections for DACA and T.P.S. recipients must be included in a border security deal.And he pushed back forcefully against critics like Mr. Carafano who said the measure amounted to an unacceptable amnesty for undocumented immigrants.“There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal,” Mr. Pence said.But that was one reason many Democrats considered it unacceptable. Other senior administration officials made it clear that part of Mr. Trump’s strategy was to try to drive a wedge within the party between those who want to hold out for a much more generous solution and those who may feel enough political pressure to end the shutdown that they will feel obliged to support it.Noting that Tuesday is the deadline for the government to reopen in time to prevent federal employees from going a second consecutive pay period without a check, Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, said Senate Democrats had a tricky decision to make. He also noted that the president’s ability to declare a national emergency was “absolutely” still a tool available to Mr. Trump to find funds to build the wall if a legislative agreement could not be reached.Now it will be up to Mr. McConnell to put legislation incorporating Mr. Trump’s proposal on the Senate floor.Mr. McConnell — who has insisted he will not put any legislation on the floor unless the president will sign it — spoke to Mr. Trump, Mr. Kushner and Mr. Pence on Thursday night about finding a way forward.Mr. McConnell told the president that before he could bring up legislation on the Senate floor, he needed a “public reassurance” that Mr. Trump would sign it, one person close to the talks said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to describe sensitive discussions.The president’s proposal “strikes a fair compromise by incorporating priorities from both sides of the aisle,” Mr. McConnell said in a statement after Mr. Trump’s speech.If Mr. McConnell does indeed put a bill on the floor, as the president said he would, Senate Democrats will have to decide whether to block it or let it come up for a vote. Despite Democrats’ vow to reject the measure, it could create an opening for negotiations between the two sides.The shutdown stalemate is creating increasing nervousness on Capitol Hill, especially among Republicans seeking re-election in Democratic-leaning states. One of them, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, is among only a handful of Republicans who have broken with the president and called for the government to reopen without a border security deal.On Saturday, she praised the president, saying she hoped that Mr. Trump’s offer would “lead to constructive debate that will end this impasse.”White House aides and allies of Mr. Trump said Saturday that Mr. Trump succeeded in ratcheting up the political pressure on Ms. Pelosi, especially if the Senate succeeded in passing a bill.“The Democrats’ talking points have been that the president is solely responsible for shutting down the government,” Marc Short, the former White House legislative director, said. “This puts more onus on them to come back and say why this proposal is insufficient.”But one reason Democrats are so leery of the deal is that they have been down this road with the president before. Last year, Mr. Trump and Mr. Schumer negotiated $25 billion in wall money for a pathway to citizenship for the Dreamers. But that deal fell apart when hard-line White House advisers persuaded the president to back away.The standoff over the shutdown, some former aides noted, was the first time Mr. Trump has had to engage in meaningful, high-stakes negotiations. But even that has come as a last resort, in what some have likened to negotiating out of desperation after failing to score political points.Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Katie RogersWASHINGTON — President Trump has not gone out of his way to demonstrate any particular empathy for the 800,000 federal workers affected by the government shutdown, but he has been relatively careful about what he has said about them.“I love them,” Mr. Trump said to reporters on Thursday and then repeated one of his favorite talking points. “Many of those people that are not getting paid are totally in favor of what we’re doing because they know the future of this country is dependent on having a strong border.”But Mr. Trump has stocked his administration with millionaires and the garden-variety wealthy who have not been as careful with their messaging, and Democrats are making the most of it.The ripest partisan target is Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, who pads around Washington in $600 embroidered slippers and is known for frequenting high-end restaurants. On Thursday, he expressed confusion about why furloughed federal workers were visiting food banks.“I don’t really quite understand why” the food bank visits were happening, Mr. Ross, 81, said on CNBC. Some banks were offering interest-free loans, he said, and because the workers would eventually get their back pay, “there’s no real reason why they shouldn’t be able to get a loan against it.”Asked by reporters to respond to Mr. Ross’s comments, Mr. Trump said that he had not heard them, “but I do understand, perhaps, he should have said it differently.” He went on to suggest that “local people” who operate banks and grocery stores would be understanding of people who have missed pay.By that time, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, had already called Mr. Ross’s comments “appalling” and further evidence of the administration’s “callous indifference” toward federal workers. But it was Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, Mr. Trump’s most visible shutdown adversary, who invoked the French Revolution.“Is this the ‘let them eat cake’ kind of attitude,” Ms. Pelosi said, “or call your father for money?” — a reference to an earlier taunt of the president after a shutdown meeting.But Mr. Ross is not the only one whose remarks required some cleanup. Lara Trump, the president’s daughter-in-law, faced days of criticism this week after  an interview published Monday in which she said the shutdown amounted to “a little bit of pain, but it’s going to be for the future of our country.”She appeared Thursday on Fox News to say that she felt for federal workers and that her original comments were taken out of context by the “mainstream media.”Joining Mr. Ross and Ms. Trump on Thursday was Larry Kudlow, a top economic adviser, who turned up in the White House briefing room to tell reporters that the shutdown was “just a glitch” and to defend how connected he was to its effects.“Am I out of touch?” Mr. Kudlow said. “I don’t think I’m out of touch. I’m addressing the problem.”Mr. Kudlow also seemed to disagree with a reporter who told him that coming to work during a shutdown was not, in fact, volunteer work because workers “believe in” the president.“Give them credit, O.K.?” Mr. Kudlow said. “They honor us by their service.”Mr. Kudlow’s comments drew a rebuke from Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, who suggested that people in the administration meet with workers to learn firsthand of the shutdown’s effects.“If Mr. Kudlow, Mr. Ross, or literally anyone in this Administration would actually meet with federal workers and listen to their stories,” Mr. Warner said on Twitter, “they’d know how insulting these kinds of comments are.”Mr. Trump, appears to be listening to the Democratic criticism but not responding to the nuances of it.On Thursday, he appeared to be watching the news conference where Ms. Pelosi made her reference to Marie Antoinette. As she was speaking, he cherry-picked a snippet of her criticism as a real-time rebuttal for his Twitter feed — one that seemed to miss her larger point about his administration being too out of touch to understand the problem.“Nancy just said she ‘just doesn’t understand why?’” Mr. Trump tweeted, paraphrasing her remarks about the administration not understanding economic hardship. “Very simply, without a Wall it all doesn’t work. Our Country has a chance to greatly reduce Crime, Human Trafficking, Gangs and Drugs. Should have been done for decades. We will not Cave!”For Mr. Trump, the promise of repaying federal workers may be acknowledgment enough. As a book-writing businessman, Mr. Trump cited his disgust for a city worker on the job who “seemed to be on break,” and gained a reputation for treating workers on his construction projects poorly. As president, he has churned through advisers, especially those who have allowed any daylight to show between his public thoughts and theirs.Mr. Trump’s allies have maintained that he cares about federal workers, but experts have not seen this in practice. Ken Jacobs, the chairman of the Center for Labor Research and Education at the University of California, Berkeley, said in an interview that the president’s response to the shutdown appeared to reinforce his pattern of treating workers as disposable.What was “highly unusual,” Mr. Jacobs added, was that so many members of Mr. Trump’s cabinet and administration have appeared to share those views.“When you have a cabinet filled with so many people who are as wealthy as this cabinet is,” Mr. Jacobs said, “it just seems like they just do not understand or can’t comprehend how your average person lives.”Other members of the Trump administration have stumbled into unfortunate optics and delivered clumsy sound bites in recent weeks. Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, was in Cabo San Lucas when the shutdown began, and flew to Los Angeles this month on the private aircraft of Michael R. Milken, the billionaire “junk bond” king who pleaded guilty to securities fraud in 1990 and served two years in prison.At a conference of America’s mayors on Thursday in Washington, he expressed his gratitude to federal employees who have been working without pay.“We understand the issue as it impacts a lot of government workers,” Mr. Mnuchin said after a speech at the conference. “We have a lot of parts of the government where people are coming in and working very hard and continuing to make sure that operations are in place.”Other members of the administration have also dug in. In a December interview, Kevin Hassett, the chief White House economist, struggled to answer a question about its potential effect on holiday shopping because he was unaware of how the government pay schedule works.“I’m sure there’s someone who can tell you when the next government payday is,” Mr. Hassett said with a laugh. “It shows how carefully I watch my checking account.”But it appears that the only people affiliated with the Trump administration comfortable with acknowledging the toll it has taken on federal workers are people who have left it.On Wednesday, John F. Kelly, the former chief of staff, was among a bipartisan group of former Department of Homeland Security officials who signed a letter urging lawmakers to put an end to the shutdown. The letter said allowing federal workers to visit food banks “cannot and should not be the answer.”And from a gathering of the world’s economic elite in Davos, Switzerland, Gary D. Cohn, the president’s former economic adviser, told MSNBC in an interview on Thursday that the government “needs to be open” and that legal immigration was the only way forward to continue driving economic growth.He stopped short of endorsing the president’s plan for a wall.Alan Rappeport contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — The reopening of the federal government signals the start of three weeks of intense negotiations over border security in an ideologically divided Congress that threaten to leave Republican and Democratic leaders right where they began: at risk of a government shutdown.The stopgap spending bill President Trump signed into law on Friday night gives leaders in both chambers until Feb. 15 to devise a bipartisan resolution to their impasse over the president’s demand for $5.7 billion for a border wall. But whatever they come up with is likely to face obstacles from resurgent liberals in the House and a more conservative Senate.And Mr. Trump is a wild card. The president will have the final word on any deal, and he has already vowed to shut down the government again, or invoke his emergency powers to build a wall, if Congress does not offer a solution he likes.Nodding to the tight deadline, he acknowledged the difficulties ahead. “Will not be easy to make a deal, both parties very dug in,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Saturday. “The case for National Security has been greatly enhanced by what has been happening at the Border & through dialogue. We will build the Wall!”Meanwhile, the clock is ticking.“I think everybody’s relieved that the government’s getting back open,” said Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma. “But I think everyone’s still a little tenuous because we’ve got a sword of Damocles hanging over us three weeks from now to see if we can get things worked out.”The shutdown, the longest on record, left 800,000 federal employees without pay for 35 days — and left lawmakers in both parties feeling scarred and jittery. Tensions were running especially high on Friday: Air traffic controllers called in sick, flights were delayed across the Northeast, work slowdowns at the I.R.S. threatened to postpone tax refunds and the F.B.I. director, furious that his agents were working without pay, lashed out.This coming week, negotiators from the House and the Senate, led by the top Democrats and Republicans on the Appropriations Committees, will begin meeting to hash out a plan to secure the southwestern border. The appropriators have a history of working in a bipartisan way, and there are some areas of agreement.Democrats and Republicans — including Mr. Trump — have both called for border security packages that would include money for new technologies to detect drugs and weapons, more personnel at the border, more immigration judges, infrastructure improvement at ports of entry and humanitarian assistance for migrants.Mr. Trump, for his part, has softened his messaging, conceding in a speech in the Rose Garden on Friday that “we do not need 2,000 miles of concrete wall from sea to shining sea — we never did.” That semantic evolution could provide a face-saving way forward for both the president and Democrats, who have previously supported bills that include money for border fencing, though not a wall.And Democrats have moved closer to Mr. Trump’s $5.7 billion price tag. Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 House Democrat, told reporters this past week that lawmakers in his party were prepared to spend that much on a border security package that would include what he called a “smart wall,” featuring drones, sensors and more Border Patrol agents.“This has become a shutdown over semantics,” said Steve Israel, a Democratic former congressman from New York, who ran the party’s campaign committee. “This has become Donald Trump’s shutdown over the definition of a wall, and Democrats have succeeded at redefining border security from bricks and mortar to investments in modern technology.”But the path ahead remains complicated. Mr. Trump is desperate to fulfill his 2016 campaign pledge for a “big, beautiful wall” along the southern border — a huge sticking point for Democrats, who see the president in a weakened position now that he has caved to their core demand of reopening the government first and negotiating border security later.Progressives especially are feeling emboldened and do not like the idea that Mr. Trump is once again tying the debate over border security to a threat to shut down the government.“I think it’s offensive, even to some of the centrists and moderates, that he links his program on immigration with the functioning of government,” said Representative Ro Khanna of California, a leader of the House Progressive Caucus. “The vast majority, not just the progressives, will say not a dime goes for the border wall. And that’s especially true because we just won this fight.”Even so, Mr. Trump may have already put forth the broad outlines of a deal, with his proposal to pair money for a barrier with protections for some undocumented immigrants. The Senate rejected that plan this past week. Still, if the protections were expansive enough, and included a path to citizenship for the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers, some centrist Democrats might be persuaded to sign on.But expanding the border security discussion to include changes to immigration law could open a Pandora’s box, giving conservative Republicans a window to pursue more far-reaching restrictions on legal immigration. One such Republican, Senator Marsha Blackburn, a freshman from Tennessee, said on Friday that she intended to continue pushing not only for a “border barrier,” but also for an end to the program that protects Dreamers and an end to family-based migration — a position that is anathema to Democrats.Much will depend on Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who solidified her position as a powerful leader of her caucus during the shutdown fight. On Friday, Ms. Pelosi ducked questions about whether she could accept any money for a physical barrier, insisting instead that Democrats want a border plan rooted in “evidence-based knowledge about how we best secure our border.”Ms. Pelosi has previously said that a wall would be “immoral” — an utterance that may have backed her into a corner, said Charlie Dent, a moderate Republican who retired from the House last year.“I hope she can walk that back, because if she meant what she said that walls are immoral, how can she allow a bill to come to the floor that might include some additional money for barriers?” Mr. Dent said. As to Mr. Trump, Mr. Dent said, “the question is: Can the president be a reliable negotiator?”For Democrats, that is the proverbial $64,000 question. Mr. Trump is extremely sensitive to criticism from the right, and is known to change his stance in response to commentary from conservative pundits. Already, one of them — Ann Coulter — has ridiculed the president as a “wimp” on Twitter over his decision to reopen the government without wall funding.During the shutdown Mr. Trump sent Vice President Mike Pence and the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, to the Capitol to negotiate with Democrats. But it quickly became clear that Mr. Pence and Mr. Mulvaney were not speaking for Mr. Trump.“I ask myself: Is this going to be a Trump negotiation, negotiated in good faith, or is he going to say one thing through his advisers and another when he hears from Rush Limbaugh and Ann Coulter?” asked Representative Nita M. Lowey of New York, who as chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee will be leading the talks.“I’m an appropriator; I’m used to making deals,” Ms. Lowey said, though she added, “I don’t know how this negotiation is going to go.”Some of the more pragmatic voices in Congress insist the two sides are not that far apart. Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, noted that last year Congress approved, and Mr. Trump signed into law, a bipartisan bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security that included $1.375 billion for new fencing along the border. Mr. Portman said Mr. Trump’s budget proposal for the 2019 fiscal year included money for just 234 miles of new fencing — hardly an enormous wall from one end of the country to the other.“Both the president and his Democratic critics have mischaracterized what the proposal is,” Mr. Portman said, adding that he sees reasons for optimism. He has been heartened by comments from Ms. Pelosi and House Democrats about the importance of border security and by remarks from moderate Democrats in the Senate who have said they are open to more fencing.And he said nobody — or at least nobody on Capitol Hill — was in the mood for another shutdown: “We’re sort of at the end of the rope now, right?”Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisement

      By NICHOLAS FANDOS, 
    
JON HUANG, 
    
THOMAS KAPLAN and 
    
KATIE ROGERS

FEB. 5, 2019

New York Times reporters analyzed the 45th president’s second State of the Union Speech on Tuesday.
Thank you very much.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President, members of Congress, the First Lady of the United States —  and my fellow Americans. We meet tonight at a moment of unlimited potential.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentAs we begin a new Congress, I stand here ready to work with you to achieve historic breakthroughs for all Americans. Millions of our fellow citizens are watching us now gathered in this great chamber hoping that we will govern not as two parties but as one nation.The agenda I will layout this evening is 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    not a Republican agenda or a Democrat agenda, it’s the agenda of the American people. Many of us have campaigned on the same core promises to defend American jobs and demand fair trade for American workers.
                  
                
                Katie Rogers, White House CorrespondentTo rebuild and revitalize our nation’s infrastructure, to reduce the price of health care and prescription drugs, to create an immigration system that is safe, lawful, modern, and secure and to pursue a foreign policy that puts America’s interests first. There is a new opportunity in American politics if only we have the courage together to seize it.
Victory is not winning for our party. Victory is winning for our country.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentThis year America will recognize two important anniversaries that show us the majesty of America’s mission and the power of American pride. In June, we mark 75 years since the start of what General Dwight D. Eisenhower called the great crusade, the allied liberation of Europe in World War II.On D-Day, June 6th, 1944, 15,000 young American men jumped from the sky and 60,000 more stormed in from the sea to save our civilization from tyranny. Here with us tonight are three of those 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    incredible heros. Private First Class Joseph Reilly, Staff Sergeant Irving Locker, and Sergeant Herman Zeitchik.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentGentlemen, we salute you. In 2019, we also celebrate 50 years since brave young pilots flew a quarter of a million miles through space to plant the American flag on the face of the moon. Half a century later, we are joined by one of the Apollo 11 astronauts who planted that flag, 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    Buzz Aldrin.
Katie Rogers, White House CorrespondentThank you, Buzz. This year, American astronauts will go back to space on American rockets.In the 20th century, America saved freedom, transformed science, redefined the middle class, and when you get down to it, there's nothing anywhere in the world that can compete with America.Now we must step boldly and bravely into the next chapter of this great American adventure, and we must create a new standard of living for the 21st century. An amazing quality of life for all of our citizens is within reach. We can make our community safer, our families stronger, our culture richer, our faith deeper, and our middle class bigger and more prosperous than ever before.But we must reject the politics of revenge, resistance and retribution and embrace the boundless potential of cooperation, compromise, and the common good.
Together we can break decades of political stalemate. We can bridge all divisions,
                  
                
                Thomas Kaplan, Washington CorrespondentWe can bridge old divisions, heal old wounds, build new coalitions, forge new solutions, and unlock the extraordinary promise of America's future. The decision is ours to make.We must choose between greatness or gridlock, results or resistance, vision or vengeance, incredible progress or pointless destruction. Tonight, I ask you to choose greatness.Over the last two years, my administration has moved with urgency and historic speed to confront problems neglected by leaders of both parties over many decades. In just over two years since the election, we have launched an unprecedented economic boom — a boom that has rarely been seen before. 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    We have created 5.3 million new jobs and importantly added 600,000 new manufacturing jobs — something which almost everyone said was impossible to do, but the fact is, we are just getting started.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentWages are rising at the fastest pace in decades, and growing for blue collar workers, who I promised to fight for, they’re growing faster than anyone thought possible. 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    Nearly 5 million Americans have been lifted off food stamps. The U.S. economy is growing almost twice as fast today as when I took office, and we are considered far and away the hottest economy anywhere in the world.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentUnemployment has reached the lowest rate in over half a century. African-American, Hispanic-American and Asian-American unemployment have all reached their lowest levels ever recorded. Unemployment for Americans with disabilities has also reached an all-time low. More people are working now than at any time in our history — 157 million people at work.We passed a massive tax cut for working families and doubled the child tax credit. We virtually ended the estate tax, or death tax as it has been often called, on small businesses, ranches, and family farms. 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    We eliminated the very unpopular Obamacare individual mandate penalty — and to give critically ill patients access to life-saving cures,we passed, very importantly, “Right to Try.”
                  
                
                Thomas Kaplan, Washington Correspondent
My administration has cut more regulations in a short period of time than any other administration during its entire tenure. Companies are coming back to our country in large numbers thanks to our historic reductions in taxes and regulations. And we have unleashed a revolution in American energy — the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. And now, for the first time in 65 years, we are a net exporter of energy.
                  
                
                Thomas Kaplan, Washington CorrespondentAfter 24 months of rapid progress, our economy is the envy of the world, our military is the most powerful on earth, by far, and America is again winning each and every day. Members of Congress: the State of our Union is strong.('U.S.A' chant from audience)That sounds so good.Our country is vibrant and our economy is thriving like never before. On Friday, it was announced that we added another 304,000 jobs last month alone — almost double the number expected. An economic miracle is taking place in the United States — and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    ridiculous partisan investigations. If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation. It just doesn’t work that way!
                  
                
                Thomas Kaplan, Washington CorrespondentWe must be united at home to defeat our adversaries abroad. This new era of cooperation can start with finally confirming the more than 300 highly qualified nominees who are still stuck in the Senate — in some cases years and years of waiting, not right. The Senate has failed to act on these nominations, which is unfair to the nominees and very unfair to our country. 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    Now is the time for bipartisan action. Believe it or not, we have already proven that that’s possible. 
Katie Rogers, White House Correspondent
In the last Congress, both parties came together to pass unprecedented legislation to confront the opioid crisis, a sweeping new Farm Bill, historic V.A. reforms, and after four decades of rejection, we passed V.A. accountability so that we can finally terminate those who mistreat our wonderful veterans. And just weeks ago, both parties united for groundbreaking criminal justice reform. They said it couldn’t be done.
                  
                
                Thomas Kaplan, Washington CorrespondentLast year, 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    I heard through friends the story of Alice Johnson. I was deeply moved. In 1997, Alice was sentenced to life in prison as a first-time non-violent drug offender. Over the next 22 years, she became a prison minister, inspiring others to choose a better path. She had a big impact on that prison population — and far beyond. Alice’s story underscores the disparities and unfairness that can exist in criminal sentencing — and the need to remedy this total injustice. She served almost that 22 years and had expected to be in prison for the remainder of her life.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentIn June, I commuted Alice’s sentence — when I saw Alice's beautiful family greet her at the prison gates, hugging and kissing and crying and laughing, I knew I did something right — Alice is here with us tonight and she is a terrific woman. Terrific. Alice please. Alice, thank you for reminding us that we always have the power to shape our own destiny. Thank you very much, Alice. Thank you very much. Inspired by stories like Alice’s, my administration worked closely with members of both parties to sign the First Step Act into law. Big deal, it’s a big deal.This legislation reformed sentencing laws that have wrongly and disproportionately harmed the African-American community. The First Step Act gives non-violent offenders the chance to re-enter society as productive, law-abiding citizens. Now, states across the country are following our lead. America is a nation that believes in redemption.We are also joined tonight by 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    Matthew Charles from Tennessee. In 1996, at the age of 30, Matthew was sentenced to 35 years for selling drugs and related offenses. Over the next two decades, he completed more than 30 Bible studies, became a law clerk, and mentored many of his fellow inmates. Now, Matthew is the very first person to be released from prison under the First Step Act. Matthew please. Thank you Matthew. Welcome home.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional Correspondent
Now, Republicans and Democrats must join forces again to confront an urgent national crisis. Congress has 10 days left to pass a bill that will fund our government, protect our homeland, and secure our very dangerous southern border.
                  
                
                Thomas Kaplan, Washington CorrespondentNow is the time for Congress to show the world that America is committed to ending illegal immigration and putting the ruthless coyotes, cartels, drug dealers, and human traffickers out of business. As we speak, large, organized caravans are on the march to the United States.We have just heard that Mexican cities, in order to remove the illegal immigrants from their communities, are getting trucks and buses to bring them up to our country in areas where there is little border protection. I have ordered another 3,750 troops to our southern border to prepare for the tremendous onslaught.
This is a moral issue. The lawless state of our southern border is a threat to the safety, security and financial well-being of all America. We have a moral duty to create an immigration system that protects the lives and jobs of our citizens. This includes our obligation to the millions of immigrants living here today, who followed the rules and respected our laws.
                  
                
                Thomas Kaplan, Washington CorrespondentLegal immigrants enrich our nation and strengthen our society in countless ways. I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally. Tonight, I am asking you to defend our very dangerous southern border out of love and devotion to our fellow citizens and to our country.No issue better illustrates the divide between America’s working class and America's political class than illegal immigration. Wealthy politicians and donors push for open borders while living their lives behind walls and gates and guards.Meanwhile, working class Americans are left to pay the price for mass illegal immigration — reduced jobs, lower wages, overburdened schools, hospitals that are so crowded you can’t get in, increased crime, and a depleted social safety net.
Tolerance for illegal immigration is not compassionate — it is actually very cruel. One in three women is sexually assaulted on the long journey north. Smugglers use migrant children as human pawns to exploit our laws and gain access to our country. Human traffickers and sex traffickers take advantage of the wide open areas between our ports of entry to smuggle thousands of young girls and women into the United States and to sell them into prostitution and modern-day slavery.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentTens of thousands of innocent Americans are killed by lethal drugs that cross our border and flood into our cities — including meth, heroin, cocaine and fentanyl. The savage gang, MS-13, now operates in at least 20 different American states, and they almost all come through our southern border. Just yesterday, an MS-13 gang member was taken into custody for a fatal shooting on a subway platform in New York City. We are removing these gang members by the thousands, but until we secure our border they're going to keep streaming right back in.Year after year, countless Americans are murdered by criminal illegal aliens. 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    I’ve gotten to know many wonderful angel moms, and dads and families — no one should ever have to suffer the horrible heartache that they have had to endure.
                  
                
                Katie Rogers, White House CorrespondentHere tonight is Debra Bissell. Just three weeks ago, Debra’s parents, Gerald and Sharon, were burglarized and shot to death in their Reno, Nevada home by an illegal alien. They were in their eighties and are survived by 4 children, 11 grandchildren, and 20 great-grandchildren. Also here tonight are Gerald and Sharon’s granddaughter, Heather, and great-granddaughter Madison.To Debra, Heather, Madison, please stand. Few can understand your pain. Thank you for being here. Thank you very much. I will never forget, and I will fight for the memory of Gerald and Sharon, that it should never happen again. Not one more American life should be lost because our nation failed to control its very dangerous border.In the last two years, our brave ICE officers made 266,000 arrests of criminal aliens, including those charged or convicted of nearly 100,000 assaults, 30,000 sex crimes, and 4,000 killings or murders. We are joined tonight by one of those law enforcement heroes: ICE Special Agent Elvin Hernandez. When Elvin was a boy, he and his family legally immigrated to the United States from the Dominican Republic. At the age of eight, Elvin told his dad he wanted to become a Special Agent.Today, he leads investigations into the scourge of international sex trafficking. Elvin says: “If I can make sure these young girls get their justice, I've really done my job.” Thanks to his work and that of his incredible colleagues,more than 300 women and girls have been rescued from the horror of this terrible situation and more than 1,500 sadistic traffickers have been put behind bars.Special Agent Hernandez please stand. We will always support the brave men and women of law enforcement — and I pledge to you tonight that we will never abolish our heroes from ICE.My administration has sent to Congress a commonsense proposal to end the crisis on the Southern Border.It includes humanitarian assistance, more law enforcement, drug detection at our ports, closing loopholes that enable child smuggling, and plans for a new physical barrier, or wall, to secure the vast areas between our ports of entry. In the past, most of the people in this room voted for a wall. But the proper wall was never built. 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    I will get it built.
Thomas Kaplan, Washington Correspondent
This is a smart, strategic, see-through steel barrier — not just a simple concrete wall. It will be deployed in the areas identified by border agents as having the greatest need, and these agents will tell you, where walls go up, illegal crossings go way way down.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentSan Diego used to have the most illegal border crossings in our country. In response, a strong security wall was put in place. This powerful barrier almost completely ended illegal crossings.The border city of El Paso, Texas, used to have extremely high rates of violent crime — one of the highest in the entire country, and considered one of our nation's most dangerous cities. Now, immediately upon its building, with a powerful barrier in place, 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    El Paso is one of the safest cities in our country. Simply put, walls work and walls save lives. So let's work together, compromise, and reach a deal that will truly make America safe.
                  
                
                Katie Rogers, White House CorrespondentAs we work to defend our people's safety, we must also ensure our economic resurgence continues at a rapid pace. No one has benefited more from our thriving economy than women, who have filled 58 percent of the newly created jobs last year.(Women cheering in the crowd)You weren’t supposed to do that. Thank you very much.All Americans can be proud that we have more women in the workforce than ever before(More women cheering and standing)Don’t sit yet, you’re going to like this. And exactly one century after Congress passed the constitutional amendment giving women the right to vote, 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    we also have more women serving in Congress than at any time before. That’s great. Really great. And congratulations.
                  
                
                Katie Rogers, White House CorrespondentAs part of our commitment to improving opportunity for women everywhere, this Thursday we are launching the first ever government-wide initiative focused on economic empowerment for women in developing countries. To build on our incredible economic success, one priority is paramount — reversing decades of calamitous trade policies. So bad.We are now making it clear to China that after years of targeting our industries, and stealing our intellectual property, the theft of American jobs and wealth has come to an end. Therefore, we recently 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    imposed tariffs on $250 billion dollars of Chinese goods — and now our Treasury is receiving billions and billions of dollars.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentBut I don’t blame China for taking advantage of us — I blame our leaders and representatives for allowing this travesty to happen. I have great respect for President Xi, and we are now working on a new trade deal with China. But it must include real, structural change to end unfair trade practices, reduce our chronic trade deficit, and protect American jobs.Another historic trade blunder was the catastrophe known as NAFTA. I have met the men and women of 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Indiana, New Hampshire, and many other states whose dreams were shattered by the signing of NAFTA. For years, politicians promised them they would negotiate for a better deal. But no one ever tried — until now.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentOur new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement — the U.S.M.C.A. — will replace NAFTA and deliver for American workers like they haven’t had delivered to in a long time.
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                     I hope you can pass the U.S.M.C.A. into law, so we can bring back our manufacturing jobs in even greater numbers, expanding American agriculture, protecting intellectual property, and ensuring that more cars are proudly stamped with the four beautiful words: Made in the USA.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentTonight, I am also asking you to pass the United States Reciprocal Trade Act, so that if another country places an unfair tariff on an American product, we can charge them the exact same tariff on the exact same product that they sell to us.
Both parties should be able to unite for a great rebuilding of America's crumbling infrastructure. I know that Congress is eager to pass an infrastructure bill — and I am eager to work with you on legislation to deliver new and important infrastructure investment, including investments in the cutting edge industries of the future. This is not an option. This is a necessity.
                  
                
                Thomas Kaplan, Washington CorrespondentThe next major priority for me, and for all of us, should be to lower the cost of healthcare and prescription drugs — and to 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Already, as a result of my administration’s efforts, in 2018 drug prices experienced their single largest decline in 46 years.
                  
                
                Thomas Kaplan, Washington CorrespondentBut we must do more. It’s unacceptable that Americans pay vastly more than people in other countries for the exact same drugs, often made in the exact same place. This is wrong, this is unfair, and together we will stop it. And we will stop it fast. I am asking Congress to pass legislation that finally takes on the problem of global freeloading and delivers fairness and price transparency for American patients. Finally.We should also require drug companies, insurance companies, and hospitals to disclose real prices to foster competition and bring costs way down. No force in history has done more to advance the human condition than American freedom.In recent years we have made remarkable progress in the fight against HIV and AIDS. Scientific breakthroughs have brought a once-distant dream within reach. My budget will ask Democrats and Republicans to make the needed commitment to eliminate the HIV epidemic in the United States within 10 years. We have made incredible strides. Incredible. 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    Together, we will defeat AIDS in America and beyond. 
Katie Rogers, White House CorrespondentTonight I am also asking you to join me in another fight that all Americans can get behind: the fight against childhood cancer. Joining Melania in the gallery this evening is a very brave 10 year old girl, Grace Eline. Hi Grace.Every birthday since she was 4, Grace asked her friends to donate to St. Jude Children's Hospital. She did not know that one day she might be a patient herself. That’s what happened. Last year, Grace was diagnosed with brain cancer. Immediately, she began radiation treatment. At the same time, she rallied her community and raised more than $40,000 dollars for the fight against cancer.When Grace completed treatment last fall, her doctors and nurses cheered, they love her, they still love her, with tears in their eyes as she hung up a poster that read: “Last day of chemo.” Thank you very much, Grace. You are a great inspiration to everyone in this room.Many childhood cancers have not seen new therapies in decades. My budget will ask Congress for $500 million dollars over the next 10 years to fund this critical life-saving research.To help support working parents, the time has come to pass school choice for America's children. I am also proud to be the first President to include in my budget a plan for nationwide paid family leave — so that every new parent has the chance to bond with their newborn child. There could be no greater contrast to the beautiful image of a mother holding her infant child than the chilling displays our nation saw in recent days.Lawmakers in New York cheered with delight upon 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother's womb moments from birth. These are living, feeling, beautiful, babies who will never get the chance to share their love and their dreams with the world. And then, we had the case of the Governor of Virginia where he stated he would execute a baby after birth.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentTo defend the dignity of every person, I am asking Congress to pass legislation to prohibit the late-term abortion of children who can feel pain in the mother's womb. Let us work together to build a culture that cherishes innocent life. And let us reaffirm a fundamental truth: all children — born and unborn — are made in the holy image of God.The final part of my agenda is to protect American security. 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    Over the last two years, we have begun to fully rebuild the United States Military — with $700 billion dollars last year and $716 billion dollars this year. We are also getting other nations to pay their fair share. Finally.
                  
                
                Thomas Kaplan, Washington CorrespondentFor years, the United States was being treated very unfairly by friends of ours. Members of NATO. But now we have secured more than $100 billion of increase in defense spending from NATO allies. They said it couldn’t be done. As part of our military build-up, the United States is developing a state-of-the-art missile defense system.Under my Administration, we will never apologize for advancing America's interests. For example, decades ago the United States entered into a treaty with Russia in which we agreed to limit and reduce our missile capability. While we followed the agreement to the letter, Russia repeatedly violated its terms. It’s been going on for many years. That is why I announced that the United States is officially withdrawing from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, or I.N.F. Treaty. 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    We really have no choice.
Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentPerhaps we can negotiate a different agreement, adding China and others, or perhaps we can’t — in which case, we will outspend and out-innovate all others by far. As part of a bold new diplomacy, we continue our historic push for peace on the Korean Peninsula. Our hostages have come home, nuclear testing has stopped, and there has not been a missile launch in more than 15 months.If I had not been elected president of the United States, we would right now, in my opinion, be in a major war with North Korea. Much work remains to be done, but my relationship with Kim Jong-un is a good one. Chairman Kim and 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    I will meet again on February 27th and 28th in Vietnam. 
Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentTwo weeks ago, the United States officially recognized the legitimate government of Venezuela, and its new interim president, Juan Guaido. We stand with the Venezuelan people in their noble quest for freedom — and we condemn the brutality of the Maduro regime, whose socialist policies have turned that nation from being the wealthiest in South America into a state of abject poverty and despair.Here, in the United States, we are alarmed by 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    new calls to adopt socialism in our country. America was founded on liberty and independence — and not government coercion, domination and control. We are born free, and we will stay free. Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentOne of the most complex set of challenges we face, and have for many years, is in the Middle East. Our approach is based on principled realism — not discredited theories that have failed for decades to yield progress. For this reason, my Administration recognized the true capital of Israel — and proudly opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.Our brave troops have now been fighting in the Middle East for almost 19 years. In Afghanistan and Iraq, nearly 7,000 American heroes have given their lives. More than 52,000 Americans have been badly wounded. We have spent more than seven trillion dollars in the Middle East.As a candidate for president, I loudly pledged a new approach. Great nations do not fight endless wars. When I took office, ISIS controlled more than 20,000 square miles in Iraq and Syria. Just two years ago. Today, we have liberated virtually all of the territory from the grip of these bloodthirsty monsters. Now, as we work with our allies to destroy the remnants of ISIS, it is time to give our brave warriors in Syria a warm welcome home.I have also accelerated our negotiations to reach a political settlement in Afghanistan. The opposing side is also very happy to be negotiating. Our troops have fought with unmatched valor — and thanks to their bravery, we are now able to pursue a possible political solution to this long and bloody conflict. In Afghanistan, my administration is holding constructive talks with a number of Afghan groups, including the Taliban.As we make progress in these negotiations, 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    we will be able to reduce our troops presence and focus on counter-terrorism. And we will indeed focus on counter-terrorism. We do not know whether we will achieve an agreement — but we do know that after two decades of war, the hour has come to at least try for peace. And the other side would like to do the same thing. It’s time.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentAbove all, friend and foe alike must never doubt this nation's power and will to defend our people. 18 years ago, violent terrorists attacked the USS Cole — and last month American forces killed one of the leaders of that attack. We are honored to be joined tonight by Tom Wibberley, whose son, Navy Seaman Craig Wibberley, was one of the 17 sailors we tragically lost. Tom, we vow to always remember the heroes of the USS Cole.My administration has acted decisively to confront the world's leading state sponsor of terror, the radical regime in Iran. It is a radical regime. They do bad, bad things.To ensure this corrupt dictatorship never acquires nuclear weapons, I withdrew the United States from the disastrous Iran nuclear deal. And last fall, we put in place the toughest sanctions ever imposed on a country. We will not avert our eyes from a regime that chants “death to America” and threatens genocide against the Jewish people.We must never ignore the vile poison of anti-semitism, or those who spread its venomous creed. With one voice, we must confront this hatred anywhere and everywhere it occurs. Just months ago, 11 Jewish-Americans were viciously murdered in an anti-semitic attack on the 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh.
                  
                
                Katie Rogers, White House CorrespondentSWAT Officer Timothy Matson raced into the gunfire and was shot seven times chasing down the killer. And he was very successful. Timothy has just had his 12th surgery — and he’s going in for many more — but he made the trip to be here with us tonight. Officer Matson, please. Thank you. We are forever grateful.Tonight we are also joined by Pittsburgh survivor Judah Samet. He arrived at the synagogue as the massacre began. But not only did Judah narrowly escape death last fall — more than 7 decades ago, he narrowly survived the Nazi concentration camps. Today is Judah’s 81st birthday.
(Crowd sings “Happy Birthday”)Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentThey wouldn’t do that for me, Judah.Judah says he can still remember the exact moment, nearly 75 years ago, after 10 months in a concentration camp, when he and his family were put on a train, and told they were going to another camp. Suddenly the train screeched to a very strong halt. A soldier appeared. Judah’s family braced for the worst. Then, his father cried out with joy: “It’s the Americans. It’s the Americans.”A second Holocaust survivor who is here tonight, Joshua Kaufman, was a prisoner at Dachau concentration camp. He remembers watching through a hole in the wall of a cattle car as American soldiers rolled in with tanks. “To me,” Joshua recalls, “the American soldiers were proof that God exists, and they came down from the sky. They came down from heaven.”I began this evening by honoring three soldiers who fought on D-Day in the second World War. One of them was Herman Zeitchik. 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    But there is more to Herman's story. 
Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentA year after he stormed the beaches of Normandy, Herman was one of those American Soldiers who helped liberate Dachau. He was one of the Americans who helped rescue Joshua from that hell on earth.  Almost 75 years later, Herman and Joshua are both together in the gallery tonight — seated side-by-side, here in the home of American freedom.Herman and Joshua: your presence this evening is very much appreciated, thank you very much. Thank you.When American soldiers set out beneath the dark skies over the English Channel in the early hours of D-Day, 1944, they were just young men of 18 and 19, hurtling on fragile landing craft toward the most momentous battle in the history of war. They did not know if they would survive the hour. They did not know if they would grow old. But they knew that America had to prevail. Their cause was this nation, and generations yet unborn.Why did they do it? They did it for America — they did it for us.Everything that has come since — our triumph over communism, our giant leaps of science and discovery, our unrivaled progress toward equality and justice — all of it is possible thanks to the blood and tears and courage and vision of the Americans who came before.Think of this Capitol — think of this very chamber, where lawmakers before you voted to end slavery, to build the railroads and the highways, and defeat fascism, to secure civil rights, and to face down evil empires.Here tonight we have legislators from across this magnificent republic. You have come from 
                
                  

                  
                  
                    
                    the rocky shores of Maine and the volcanic peaks of Hawaii. From the snowy woods of Wisconsin and the red deserts of Arizona. From the green farms of Kentucky and the golden beaches of California.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentTogether, we represent the most extraordinary nation in all of history. What will we do with this moment? How will we be remembered?I ask the men and women of this Congress: Look at the opportunities before us. Our most thrilling achievements are still ahead. Our most exciting journeys still await. Our biggest victories are still to come. We have not yet begun to dream.We must choose whether we are defined by our differences — or whether we dare to transcend them. We must choose whether we squander our inheritance — or whether we proudly declare that we are Americans: We do the incredible. We defy the impossible. We conquer the unknown.This is the time to re-ignite the American imagination. This is the time to search for the tallest summit, and set our sights on the brightest star. This is the time to rekindle the bonds of love and loyalty and memory that link us together as citizens, as neighbors, as patriots. This is our future — our fate — and our choice to make.
I am asking you to choose greatness. No matter the trials we face, no matter the challenges to come, we must go forward together.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentWe must keep America first in our hearts. We must keep freedom alive in our souls. And we must always keep faith in America’s destiny — that one nation, under God, must be the hope and the promise and the light and the glory among all the nations of the world.
Thank you. God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you very much.
                  
                
                Nicholas Fandos, Congressional CorrespondentAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byVoters want more open borders, not a ‘smart wall.’ Democrats should listen.By Daniel DenvirMr. Denvir is the author of the forthcoming “All-American Nativism.”The last government shutdown ended because Democrats stood firm against President Trump’s border wall. But funding will soon run out again, talks between Democrats and Republicans are in crisis, and Mr. Trump remains committed: “The Wall will get built one way or the other!” he tweeted on Saturday.The Senate’s minority leader, Chuck Schumer, has made it clear that Mr. Trump won’t get his way: “Democrats are against the wall.” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has admirably enforced party discipline, has called the wall “immoral.”Yet at the same time, Ms. Pelosi has emphasized that “Democrats are committed to border security.” She has critiqued the wall on the narrow grounds that government should instead employ “evidence-based knowledge about how we best secure our border.” James Clyburn, the majority whip, fleshed out what that might look like: a “smart wall,” including more Border Patrol agents. This, too, is immoral.It’s also bad politics. Democrats should follow their voters, who increasingly want more open borders, and reframe the immigration debate by rejecting the very notion that the border needs more “security” and making it clear that the real problem is the denial of migrants’ rights. The time has come for the Democratic Party to push for concrete policies to make the border more open.There is plainly no need for more security on the border. Illegal entries to the United States (as measured by Border Patrol apprehensions, which the government has long used as a proxy) began to fall at the turn of the century, and have plummeted since 2006. They remain at historic lows today. Those who are coming to the country are often Central Americans fleeing violence that United States policy in the region helped foment.And when it comes to drugs — a favorite justification of Mr. Trump’s for his wall — evidence shows that more “border security” does not stop trafficking. From the 1970s on, every crackdown on a drug-smuggling route, whether it was heroin via the French Connection or cocaine through the Caribbean, has only led to new innovations in the trade that have empowered murderous Mexican cartels. Some scholars even argue that the rise of fentanyl can be traced to drug interdiction.Then why, if there isn’t truly a crisis on the border, do the Democrats continue to invoke the need for more “border security”? Largely because the conversation about the border and immigration has moved so far to the right over the past 30 years. As the linguist George Lakoff and Sam Ferguson, his student at the time, wrote more than a decade ago, the narrow framing of the “immigration” debate “has shaped its politics, defining what count as ‘problems’” and, as a result, “constrains the solutions needed to address that problem.” When the “problem” is defined as “illegal immigration,” it becomes about “the illegal act of crossing the border without papers,” and so “the logical response to the ‘wave’ of ‘illegal immigration’ becomes ‘border security.’”Since Bill Clinton’s presidency, the Border Patrol has grown from 4,100 agents in fiscal year 1992 to more than 19,000 today. The United States has built hundreds of miles of border fencing since the 2006 Secure Fence Act, which Barack Obama, Joe Biden and Hillary Clinton voted for. “Well, I voted for border security, and some of it was a fence,” Mrs. Clinton feebly said in 2016 when pressed about the 2006 vote that within a decade had become controversial.Democrats have for far too long let their political opponents define the terms of debate. Now they’re doing it again: House Democrats’ proposal heading into the negotiations with Republicans didn’t include funding for new physical barriers or additional Border Patrol agents, but it did offer significantly increased funding for “border security technology.”That’s not only bad for immigrants who, as a result of militarized borders are more likely to be kidnapped, violently assaulted and driven to cross via the lethal desert. It’s also bad for Democrats, who are handing ammunition to the nativist right at a time when Republicans are on the back foot and polls show that Democratic voters are moving decidedly leftward on immigration and the border.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]Voters used to overwhelmingly favor less immigration, but opinions have changed fast amid an immigrant rights movement that took off in 2006 and partisan polarization driven by aggressive enforcement. In 1994, just 32 percent of Democrats and Democratic-leaning Americans and 30 percent of Republicans agreed that immigrants strengthened the country, according to the Pew Research Center. But by 2016, the share of Democrats who said so had skyrocketed to 78 percent. In 2006, 37 percent of Democrats said that immigration levels should be decreased, while only 20 percent said that it should be increased. In 2018, 40 percent said that it should be increased, with just 16 percent calling for restriction. The same trend has held on border politics: In 2010, 47 percent of Democrats said that they equally prioritized legalizing undocumented immigrants and “better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws,” while just 29 percent prioritized legalization alone. By 2018, the number prioritizing legalization alone skyrocketed to 51 percent.Under President Trump, polarization has accelerated — and that’s a good thing. The vanishing bipartisan consensus orchestrated mammoth deportations and militarized the border in the quixotic hope of placating the nativist right and winning it over to supporting immigration reform. This strategy only inflamed the right’s paranoiac ravings and helped move the goal posts to new extremes. Which is why we find ourselves, in 2019, with the possibility of beginning a second government shutdown over the wall.So, what should the Democrats pursue instead? A break with a failed bipartisan consensus.Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley and Rashida Tlaib, all Democrats who are new to the House, have drafted a letter urging opposition to any deal that increases Department of Homeland Security funding in any form. That’s a good start.The border must be demilitarized, which would include demolishing the already-existing wall and dramatically downsizing the Border Patrol. Criminal sanctions on illegal entry and re-entry must be repealed. Opportunities for legal immigration, particularly from Mexico and Central America, must be expanded. The right to asylum must be honored. And citizenship for those who reside here must be a stand-alone cause, unencumbered by compromises that are not only distasteful but also politically ineffectual — and that today would provoke opposition from the nativist right and the grass-roots left. If Democrats stick to the center on immigration, they will find themselves fighting on two fronts. A fight against Republicans, with the left at their back, will be far easier to win — and a more noble victory.Simple realism dictates that no legislation to grant citizenship to the millions of undocumented Americans who deserve it will be passed until the Republicans are defeated. There’s no use trying to appease them. The bipartisan consensus supporting harsh immigration and border enforcement has fractured. Democratic elected officials need to catch up.Daniel Denvir (@danieldenvir) is a visiting fellow at the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs at Brown University and the author of the forthcoming “All-American Nativism.” He also hosts “The Dig,” a podcast from Jacobin magazine.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Peter Baker and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — In pursuit of a wall, President Trump ran into one. A single-minded drive to force Congress to finance his signature campaign promise has left Mr. Trump right back where he started, this time seeking a way to climb over the political barrier in his way after trying to charge through it did not work.As he inched closer to reluctantly accepting a bipartisan spending compromise without the money he demanded for his border wall, Mr. Trump offered no acknowledgment on Wednesday that his pressure tactics had failed even as aides sought to minimize the damage by tamping down criticism on the right.One call was made to Lou Dobbs, a favorite of Mr. Trump’s whose Fox Business Network show he often tries to catch live. Another was placed to Sean Hannity, the Fox host who regularly talks with the president. The message: Mr. Trump deserved support because he still forced concessions that he would never have gotten without a five-week partial government shutdown.Even so, it was arguably the most punishing defeat Mr. Trump has experienced as president, and it left the White House scrounging for other ways to pay for a wall on the southwestern border and rethinking its approach to a Congress now partly controlled by Democrats. Mr. Trump’s inability to reach a satisfying deal despite the negotiating experience he regularly touted on the campaign trail suggested that any aspirations of collaboration across party lines may be even more elusive than he had imagined.“We shut down the government for 35 days, we put America through this crisis, we jeopardized our economy — for what?” said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the second-ranking Democrat in the upper chamber and a member of the House-Senate committee that negotiated this week’s spending deal. “Totally unnecessary.”The agreement that lawmakers produced this week would allocate $1.375 billion for fencing along the border, even less than was on the table at one point last year. The Senate plans to vote on the measure on Thursday, followed by the House. Mr. Trump would not say whether he would sign it, but he seemed to be leaning toward it in the interest of avoiding another government shutdown at midnight Friday.“With the wall, they want to be stingy,” Mr. Trump complained about Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other congressional Democrats during an encounter with reporters on Wednesday. “But we have options that most people don’t really understand.”Those options involve diverting money from other programs and potentially declaring a national emergency to access further funds. In the end, aides said, Mr. Trump may even secure more money than Congress denied him. But those options were just as available to Mr. Trump in December before the showdown that closed federal agencies.While acknowledging disappointment in the agreement, the president and his aides characterized it as better than it seemed, citing money it will provide for overall border security. Mr. Trump argued that the shutdown had been useful because it educated the country about troubles at the border and, if nothing else, he has framed the national debate on his terms.That did not completely assuage conservatives. Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the House Freedom Caucus, contradicted the White House line and declared that the agreement was “a bad deal for the president.”“Only in Washington, D.C., can we start out with needing $25 billion for border security measures and expect applause at 1.37,” he said Tuesday on Fox News. “I mean, only in D.C. is that a winning deal.”Mr. Meadows and his allies were among those targeted by the White House in hopes of avoiding a more threatening conservative revolt. A meeting with members of his Freedom Caucus in the Oval Office was partly aimed at urging them to hold their fire in television interviews when talking about the bill, according to a person briefed on the effort.And indeed, despite his complaints about the bill, Mr. Meadows made a point on Wednesday of not blaming Mr. Trump. “I think he handled it as well as anybody could handle it, given a dysfunctional Congress,” Mr. Meadows told reporters.Among those involved in the outreach, according to the person briefed on the discussions, was Bill Shine, a White House deputy chief of staff and former Fox executive who in the West Wing is seen as adept at getting some hosts at Fox to respond to White House concerns.Since coming to office, Mr. Trump has missed several opportunities to make more progress on the wall. Instead of Mexico directly paying for a $25 billion, 1,000-mile concrete barrier, as the president once said would happen, he has been seeking partial installments from Congress, arguing that his new trade agreement with Mexico will ultimately pay off enough to offset the cost. The partial installments have generally gone to replacing or repairing existing barriers, not to building the new concrete or steel walls Mr. Trump wants.At one point last year, the president and Democrats were close to a deal in which he would get all $25 billion for the wall in exchange for protections for 1.8 million young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. But Mr. Trump ultimately turned away because he also wanted cuts to legal immigration that Democrats would not accept.In his budget request for this year, Mr. Trump asked for $1.6 billion, and the Senate Appropriations Committee agreed on a bipartisan basis to give him that last summer. But the measure stalled until after the midterm elections in November.By the time Mr. Trump met with Ms. Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, in December, they offered $1.375 billion. The president then insisted on $5.7 billion, and when he did not get it, much of the government was left without the funding to keep doors open.During the shutdown, Ms. Pelosi took an even harder line, saying she would not spend a single dollar on Mr. Trump’s wall, although she said she would provide money for other border security.The deal reached this week returned to the same $1.375 billion available in December to pay for 55 miles of fencing along the border, although not walls based on the new steel or concrete prototypes Mr. Trump has promoted.Mr. Trump and his aides claimed victory because they had gotten more than Ms. Pelosi’s zero dollars, and they noted that the agreement also included $23 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection, an increase from $21 billion last year. But Democrats said much of the increase would go to their priorities, like more customs agents and humanitarian aid, not to Mr. Trump’s.Either way, his aides are now focused on finding pots of money that, with the president’s traditional discretion, can be reprogrammed toward the wall. If that is not enough, he could still declare a national emergency to bypass Congress, although such a move is opposed by many Republicans and would invariably draw a court challenge.As a result, some supporters of tougher border security said Mr. Trump’s critics should not crow because the struggle is not over.“People say, ‘Well, the president lost,’” said James Jay Carafano, a national security analyst at the Heritage Foundation. “The analogy here is if it’s a 10-round fight, Trump’s fighting 10 rounds. If Pelosi wants to say at the end of Round 1, ‘I won that round,’ Trump’s like, ‘Yeah, maybe, but I’m fighting 10 rounds.’”Andy Surabian, a former Trump White House aide, said the details do not matter to the president’s base as much as his determination to fulfill his promise. “His supporters don’t care about how the rest of the wall is built,” he said. “They just care that the wall is ultimately built.”Peter Baker reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Emily Cochrane contributed reporting from Washington.Follow Peter Baker and Maggie Haberman on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @maggieNYT.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)After a long awards season, Oscars weekend is finally upon us. The big show is on Sunday. Hopefully you’ve read all the coverage of the nominations and tuned into the awards season controversies. But, if, like me, you still need a quick refresher on everything that’s going on — or if you want to study up for your party ballot — The Times’s movies editor, Stephanie Goodman, has us covered:I’ve been editing Oscar coverage for longer than I care to admit, and this has been one of the strangest awards seasons I can remember, mainly thanks to the inexplicable moves of the motion picture academy.It introduced a “popular” film Oscar, only to drop that award less than a month later. It announced a host, Kevin Hart, only to drop that idea a few days later. And to shorten the telecast, it tried a number of measures, including cutting song performances and shifting some categories to commercial breaks, only to drop those plans. (It’s useful to remember that the telecast earns millions of dollars for the academy and ABC, and that it has been shedding viewers in recent years. The thinking is that a tighter ceremony will equal more eyeballs.)The upshot of all these reversals is that no one knows what to expect on Sunday. But we’ve got some intel.• Our Oscars expert, the Carpetbagger columnist Kyle Buchanan, has a good idea of who the winners will be. Read his predictions and use them to fill out your Oscar ballot.• Our reporter Brooks Barnes spoke with the show’s producers about their efforts to shorten the telecast.• If you think the Academy Awards have gotten more political, you’re right. Here’s why.For complete coverage, including a pocket guide to all the Oscar controversies (and which ones you need to care about), go to our awards-season roundup.(We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Yet another round of Trump vs. California is on the horizon, this time over the president’s plan to roll back tailpipe emissions standards and remove the Golden State’s right to make its own emissions rules. [The New York Times]• “The Trump administration has infused the entire legal immigration system with skepticism, but naturalization should be different: These people are already here legally.” Wait times to become a citizen have doubled in the last two years. And the process could become even more onerous. [The New York Times]• And if you want more border news, you can read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Or sign up to receive it here. [The New York Times]• Willie McCoy, the 20-year-old who was killed by police officers in a Vallejo Taco Bell drive-through, was so riddled with bullets that it was hard to tell how many times he had been shot, a lawyer for his family said. The police said he reached for a gun in his lap when they approached him. [The New York Times]• After a worker walkout over the way Google handled sexual harassment claims, the company said it would no longer force employees to settle disputes in private arbitration. [The New York Times]• Did you hear about how it snowed in Los Angeles County yesterday? No? Well, everyone from Malibu to Pasadena lost. Their. Minds. [The Los Angeles Times]• “You can’t say, ‘This is what Ohlone people were like,’ if you’re tasting food in your mouth at that moment.” At Berkeley’s Café Ohlone by Mak-’amham, indigenous chefs live and share their culture. As a result, they’re preserving it. [Civil Eats]• A husky puppy named Balto that was allowed, against experts’ advice, into a lab. Security guards and meetings with filmmakers. Here’s a look at Elizabeth Holmes’s last days at Theranos. [Vanity Fair]• Yesterday, we had some recommendations for checking out wildflowers — but they were definitely more accessible to Southland residents. So here’s a list of hikes that are likely to be blooming in the Bay. [TimeOut San Francisco]• Nannies, housekeepers and other domestic workers have some of the nation’s hardest and least secure jobs. Now, in the midst of a cultural moment fueled in part by the film “Roma,” they’re organizing to change that. [The New York Times Magazine]• An oral history of the Sea Ranch, a bucolic planned community on the coast between Bodega Bay and Mendocino where questions about coastal access, private development and inclusivity, and design played out decades ago. [Curbed]For a night in watching a marathon of an awards show, Tejal Rao, our California restaurant critic, recommends a nice, unfussy cocktail. Here’s a couple she has in mind:The eternally wise writer Rosie Schaap has a recipe for what she calls a “lazy old-fashioned” which is, I believe, a supremely chill drink to set up for a watching party. No tools required. No prep. Just clear off some space on the counter for a bottle of bourbon, a bottle of Angostura bitters and a bowl of brown sugar. Now make sure your freezer is absolutely full of newish, good-smelling ice. Every time a drink is required, plop a teaspoon of sugar at the bottom of a glass, soak it with a few dashes of bitters, then add a good amount of ice and pour over two ounces of bourbon. That’s it!And if you prefer something a bit lighter in alcohol — it’s a loooong awards show, after all, and all those commercial breaks will add up to quite a few drinks — I highly recommend sweet vermouth and seltzer on ice with a dash of bitters on top.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanLOS ANGELES — After working through the Las Vegas summer lugging boxes and heavy furniture to raise money to apply for United States citizenship, Jose Silva plunked down the $725 fee in the fall of 2017, just days after he turned 18. “I hoped to vote in the midterm elections,” he said.But it took until last week, more than a year and a half after he applied, for the college student to be scheduled for a citizenship interview, which he will have on March 20. If approved, Mr. Silva will take the oath later this year.The time that aspiring Americans must wait to be naturalized is now almost twice as long, 10 months, as it was two years ago. In Las Vegas, where the office has a particularly large backlog, applicants could wait 31 months.The delays come as the Trump administration tightens scrutiny of applications, diverts staff from reviewing them and introduces proposals likely to make it more difficult, and cumbersome, for green-card holders to qualify and complete the process.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up for it here.]Nearly nine million immigrants are eligible for citizenship. The steep application fee and the civics and English tests have historically deterred many from naturalizing. Instead, they renewed their legal residence every decade.But the administration’s move to tighten restrictions on immigration have awakened many longtime permanent residents to the fact that a green card does not shield them from deportation. It has also compelled many to seek citizenship in order to cast a ballot, with hundreds of thousands of immigrants poised to become potential voters ahead of the 2020 election.After supporting legislation that would cut overall immigration, President Trump recently championed the economic benefits of attracting foreign talent. In his State of the Union address, the president said he wanted “people to come into our country in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally.”Yet the lengthening backlog in applications is making it more difficult for immigrants to become civically engaged and to solidify ties to their adopted country, critics of the administration’s policies say. “Far from the public eye, the Trump administration is strangling the naturalization process,” said Steven Choi, a chair of the National Partnership for New Americans, a coalition of advocacy groups that is pushing to offer naturalization workshops and legal services to would-be citizens.Coalition members filed a federal lawsuit in Los Angeles in September against the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that reviews the applications, challenging the processing delays.The federal agency has blamed the delays on a sharp rise in applications.“U.S.C.I.S. continues to adjudicate the pending naturalization caseload, which skyrocketed under the Obama administration, more than doubling from 291,800 in September 2010 to nearly 700,000 by the beginning of 2017. Now, despite a record and unprecedented application surge workload, U.S.C.I.S. is completing more citizenship applications, more efficiently and effectively — outperforming itself,” Michael Bars, an agency spokesman, said in response to emailed questions.There have been bigger application spikes in the past, such as in 2007, when the caseload swelled to 1.4 million and the agency was able to work through the backlog by the following year. That has not happened with the current pileup.A total of 750,793 applications were pending at the end of June, the latest period available. But the rate at which they are being processed is at the lowest in a decade, according to an analysis released this month by Boundless Immigration, a technology company in Seattle that helps immigrants obtain green cards and citizenship. The agency was able to work through only about half its applications in 2017, compared to about 60 percent in 2016. (Data for 2018 is not available.)“Applications for citizenship have surged many times in the past and U.S.C.I.S. was able to bring enough resources to bear to tame them. Wait times have doubled and the agency is barely processing half of their backlog,” said Doug Rand, a founder of Boundless Immigration.[Would your marriage stand up to the scrutiny of the American government? Take the test.]A Feb. 12 letter to the director of Citizenship and Immigration Services that was signed by 86 members of Congress raised concerns about the “alarming growth in processing delays” for naturalization and other services like green cards and visas.It noted that the agency’s proposed budget for the 2019 fiscal year included a request that more than $200 million of its fee revenue be transferred to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that rounds up people for deportation.“This appears to represent part of U.S.C.I.S.’s larger shift toward prioritizing immigration enforcement over the service-oriented adjudications at the core of the agency’s mandate,” said the letter, which sought details about efforts to reduce and eliminate backlogs.Processing times vary across the country, depending on caseloads and staffing at regional offices. Applicants in Houston could wait almost two years; in Atlanta, the wait could be even longer. In contrast, those seeking citizenship in Louisville, Ky., have been completing the process in up to 10 months. In Buffalo, the wait is just over a year.Citizenship applications are receiving additional scrutiny — and that is likely to intensify. The Trump administration says that it is placing a premium on integrity. But immigration lawyers and other experts report that officers are digging up information going back years to raise questions that are delaying, and jeopardizing, citizenship for many applicants.“The Trump administration has infused the entire legal immigration system with skepticism, but naturalization should be different: These people are already here legally; they want to be citizens to better assimilate,” said Mr. Rand, who served in the Obama administration.The government has also been taking a harder look at some immigrants who have already become citizens. Last year, the agency launched a denaturalization task force with the aim of stripping citizenship from people found to have committed fraud to obtain it.Some applicants have shown up for their interview only to learn they could be deported.“This past year, for the first time we have started to see people who apply for naturalization not only have it denied but also be placed in removal proceedings to take away their permanent residence,” said Ted Farrell, an immigration lawyer in Louisville.Ahmed Bafagih, 31, a permanent resident since 2010, was denied citizenship after he told an officer during his interview last month in Houston that he was born in Kenya, not Yemen, as appeared in his file. He is appealing the decision.“Acting in good faith, I tried to correct the error that would have gone unnoticed,” said the lab technician, who moved to Sana from Mombasa, his birthplace, when he was about 30 days old.The denial, reviewed by The New York Times, stated that, “Your record reflects that there was fraud in procurement of your Legal Permanent Resident status,” referring to the erroneous birth certificate.Mr. Bafagih’s Yemen-born parents and three sisters are American citizens.His father, Jamal Bafagih, who won awards during 25 years of service with American government missions in the Middle East, including with the Pentagon and the Commerce Department, said: “I raised my kids to love this country. Suddenly when my son reports an error, it bounces back to hurt him; that leaves a very bad taste.”Slated for implementation are a series of regulatory changes that are likely to make the process even more onerous.One proposal would require many citizenship applicants to produce a decade of international travel history, rather than the current five; more documentation, like children’s birth certificates, which many refugees lack; as well as more information to ascertain “good moral character.”The agency has also proposed narrowing the eligibility criteria for a waiver of the full $725 filing fee, which would reduce the number of low-income immigrants who could afford to naturalize.Meanwhile, many agency officers who conduct citizenship interviews have been reassigned to the southern border to interview asylum seekers, whose cases the administration wishes to expedite, according to an agency official who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to speak to the media.For many of those waiting their turn, more is at stake than the simple pride of citizenship. Holding an American passport opens access to certain jobs, such as in law-enforcement agencies, and scholarships that are not available to noncitizens. Mr. Silva the applicant in Las Vegas, is studying Arabic, a language in high demand by government agencies, which often only hire citizens.He’s studying at a community college, but hopes to transfer to a four-year university next year — and that’s another issue.“My passion is languages,” said Mr. Silva, “and for scholarships I have found, you have to be a U.S. citizen.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — For months, President Trump has been railing about the urgent need for a wall to protect against what he calls “an invasion” of illegal immigrants flooding across the southwestern border. But he has also been delivering another message: “We need workers,” he told a group of activists recently.In other words, he wants more immigrants.“I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally,” Mr. Trump ad-libbed last month during his State of the Union address.Comments like those from the president have ignited furious criticism from his hard-line, anti-immigrant supporters who accuse him of caving to demands for cheap foreign labor from corporations, establishment Republicans and big donors while abandoning his election promise to protect his working-class supporters from the effects of globalism.“This is clearly a betrayal of what immigration hawks hoped the Trump administration would be for,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates cutting legal immigration by more than half. He warned that Mr. Trump was in danger of being “not even that different from a conventional Republican.”Breitbart News, a conservative website that promotes anti-immigrant messaging, published on Thursday the latest in a series of articles attacking Mr. Trump for catering to big business at the expense of the Americans who put him in the Oval Office. “Trump Requests ‘More’ Foreign Workers as Southern Border Gets Overrun,” the site blared on its home page.“That Mr. Trump would advance the interests of the global elite ahead of our citizens would be a tragic reversal on any day,” Lou Dobbs, the Fox Business Network host, said in a televised rant against the president on Wednesday evening. “The White House has simply lost its way.”Corporations and influential corporate conservatives such as Charles G. Koch and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have long urged the president to help them recruit the talent they need by expanding the number of workers who can enter the United States from other countries.That has become more urgent as the economy has improved and as declining unemployment has made it harder for companies to find workers. To assuage their concerns, Mr. Trump has increasingly tailored his immigration talking points to cater to the needs of business executives like those who attended a business round table on Wednesday at the White House.“We’re going to have a lot of people coming into the country. We want a lot of people coming in. And we need it,” Mr. Trump said as he sat next to Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, and other executives. “We want to have the companies grow, and the only way they’re going to grow is if we give them the workers, and the only way we’re going to have the workers is to do exactly what we’re doing.”But that message runs counter to the hard-line immigration image that Mr. Trump has carefully nurtured — most recently by shutting the government down for 35 days in a failed attempt to pressure Congress to fund a wall on the Mexican border.Mr. Trump won the White House in no small part by embracing anti-immigrant messaging that tapped into the economic fears of blue-collar workers upset about losing their jobs to foreign workers. Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, he attacked undocumented immigrants as “rapists and murderers” and called for a “big, beautiful wall” along the border with Mexico.Since becoming president, Mr. Trump has aggressively sought to crack down on illegal border crossings, increase deportations, cut the number of refugees allowed into the United States and make it harder for migrants to claim asylum. He has complained about drug dealers, gangs and members of Central American caravans pouring across the border. And last summer, his administration separated thousands of migrant children from their parents in an effort to deter Central American families from trying to seek refuge in the United States.The harsh record — and comments by Mr. Trump that disparaged African nations in vulgar terms and suggested that Haitian immigrants “all have AIDS” — has earned him the enmity of Democrats and immigration activists, who call him a racist president.It is unclear whether Mr. Trump will follow through on his recent, pro-business messaging. Many of the president’s aides — including Stephen Miller, his top immigration adviser in the White House — agree with the hard-line activists about the need to lower legal immigration.In 2017, Mr. Trump endorsed the Raise Act, a Republican Senate bill that would reduce legal immigration by as much as 50 percent. And the administration is currently considering a proposal to cut immigration by denying work authorizations, known as H-4 permits, to almost 100,000 spouses of immigrants who are brought in by companies to work legally in the United States.But even so, some of the nation’s most hard-line anti-immigration activists have become increasingly nervous that Mr. Trump might waver on their primary concern — the need to shrink the number of immigrants who enter the United States each year, currently 1.1 million.They argue that tight labor markets make it exactly the wrong time to allow more foreign workers to compete with Americans. Chris Chmielenski, the deputy director of NumbersUSA, which lobbies for lower legal immigration, said companies should be pressured to hire more Americans instead.“Anything we do now to bring in more foreign workers could actually reverse some of the economic gains over the last four years,” Mr. Chmielenski said. “We’re absolutely concerned. We feel this isn’t how he ran on the issue.”Last week, in an effort to communicate that message directly to Mr. Trump, NumbersUSA began airing an ad on Fox News Channel in the hopes that the president would get the message that his supporters do not want to let in more than one million immigrants each year.“The majority of voters say the number should be cut to 500,000 or less,” the ad said. “Americans want less immigration.”Mr. Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said that companies that no longer have access to foreign workers would have no choice but to turn to Americans who are still struggling to find work: people with disabilities, teenagers, older people and even former convicts.He also said that modest increases in wages for workers would evaporate if companies were allowed to simply tap an unlimited pool of lower-paid workers from other countries.“If you want wages to go up,” Mr. Krikorian said, “you don’t import more foreign labor.”Business groups dispute that analysis. They argue that immigration expands the amount of business activity in the United States, adding jobs and increasing wages for the vast majority of American workers.“Our country has benefited tremendously from welcoming people who have contributed to our economy, our communities, across the board,” said James Davis, a spokesman for the Koch network. “We want to welcome in everyone who wants to contribute to our society. We want to see more legal immigration.”Todd Schulte, the president of FWD.us, a pro-immigration advocacy group that started with backing from Mark Zuckerberg, a founder of Facebook, said that “immigrants and immigration increase economic growth, they increase economic productivity and they increase wages for the overwhelming number of native-born Americans.”Mr. Schulte, whose group has been highly critical of Mr. Trump’s anti-immigrant messaging and policies, welcomed the president’s recognition that legal immigration is a positive thing for the United States’ economy.But he cautioned that Mr. Trump must be measured by his actions, not his words. He called on the president to halt the effort to deny the H-4 work permits to immigrant spouses.“He should stop trying to revoke the H-4 rule,” Mr. Schulte said. “Increasing legal immigration would help native-born Americans. Unfortunately, the record has been one bent on cutting overall immigration levels.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanThe Trump administration is preparing to shutter many of its immigration operations abroad, cutting back on a key support system for those applying overseas to relocate to the United States.The director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, L. Francis Cissna, told senior staff members this week that the international division, which has operations in more than 20 countries, would close down by the end of the year, according to two people with knowledge of the meeting.Agency officials said the move was intended to provide more staff resources to handle the lengthy backlog in asylum applications from tens of thousands of migrants crossing the southern border every month. But it could come at the expense of legal migration, which President Trump has said he favors: Some agency staff members said closing overseas offices will make it more difficult and time-consuming to apply to immigrate from abroad, especially for refugees already in the United States who hope to bring other family members to join them.“This is another instance of the Trump administration halting legal immigration by denying people the opportunity to file for immigration benefits in the most expedient manner,” said Margaret Stock, a retired United States Army lieutenant colonel and an immigration attorney who frequently handles such cases.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The overseas division provides logistical assistance to American citizens, lawful permanent residents and refugees seeking to bring family members to the United States; people who have been persecuted and wish to resettle in the United States; Americans who adopt children internationally; and members of the military and their families applying for citizenship. It also plays a crucial role in immigration fraud detection.“It will be a great blow to the quality and integrity of the legal immigration system,” said Barbara Strack, who retired last year as the chief of the Refugee Affairs Division at the agency. “It will throw that system into chaos around the world.”The International Operations Division has about 240 employees working at 24 field offices in 21 countries.Jessica Collins, a spokeswoman for the agency, said the proposed reorganization would shift the agency’s workload to other offices but not necessarily cut back on its operations. “As we have internally shared, U.S.C.I.S. is in preliminary discussions to consider reallocation of its international U.S.C.I.S. office workloads to U.S.C.I.S. domestic offices in the United States and, where practicable, to U.S. embassies and consulates abroad,” she said in response to emailed questions.“The goal of any such shift would be to maximize U.S.C.I.S. resources that could then be reallocated, in part, to backlog reduction efforts,” said Ms. Collins, who declined to elaborate further.In recent months, the agency — which is primarily funded by fees paid by applicants, not by American taxpayers — has been reassigning adjudicators who handle green card and naturalization applications to process a bulging backlog of asylum claims filed by migrant families arriving at the southern border in record numbers.“It is definitely not a preliminary discussion. It’s happening,” said a senior lawyer with the agency, noting that an international-operations training course scheduled in two weeks was canceled and that officers were told to return to their former jobs.The staff member, who was not authorized to speak with the news media and spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that the work would either be done by temporary rotational staff “if absolutely needed, or pushed to the State Department, if the State Department is willing.”A spokeswoman for the State Department referred all questions to Citizenship and Immigration Services.In cities like Amman, Bangkok and Nairobi, staff with the agency’s International Operations Division conduct interviews with refugees whose relatives are already living in the United States and who wish to sponsor them for immigration, a process already plagued with delays because of additional layers of screening added under Mr. Trump’s travel ban targeting certain nations.International staff also provide logistical support to teams of refugee officers who travel abroad on so-called circuit rides to interview refugees who have applied to be resettled in the United States, many of whom have remained in refugee camps for years.“These refugee family members in East Africa have already faced tremendous delays in their cases, and this change will only make it worse,” said an agency staff member, who was not authorized to speak with the news media. “This is a disaster for them.”The primary obligation of the international operations office in Bangkok, for example, is to handle refugee applications. “The demise of this office will mean that refugees will be cast adrift, literally,” said Diane Butler, an immigration lawyer in Seattle who visited that district office, which oversees all of Asia, in late February. She said that a new district director had been transitioning into the new position. “There was no hint of this,” she said.The changes at U.S.C.I.S. come as the president’s proposed budget for the next fiscal year proposes cutting State Department funding for humanitarian assistance overseas, prompting concern from refugee advocates.Mr. Trump’s spending plan, which is likely to face deep resistance on Capitol Hill, would reduce the State Department budget for humanitarian spending from about $9.1 billion to about $6 billion, according to budget documents released this week by the administration.In addition, the budget proposal would virtually eliminate funding for the State Department’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, which for years has worked to help refugees resettle in the United States. The budget would transfer most of the money to a new program jointly administered by the United States Agency for International Development and the secretary of State.“At a time where there have never been more forcibly displaced people in recorded history, this administration came to Capitol Hill and with a straight face said they were proposing a cut in humanitarian assistance of more than one-third,” said Eric Schwartz, the president of Refugees International, an advocacy organization.“It’s all about the fact that the president has communicated that he doesn’t like refugees coming to the United States,” Mr. Schwartz said. “His administration is carrying out that obstruction in a determined way.”Mr. Trump said in his State of the Union address last month that the United States needed legal immigrants. But his focus remains on fortifying the border, and the latest move is one of a series of policy moves that will have the effect of curbing legal immigration. His administration has slashed the number of refugees that can be admitted, narrowed who is eligible for asylum and made it more difficult to qualify for permanent residency or citizenship.Under Mr. Cissna, who has crafted a number of measures to tighten immigration rules, the citizenship agency has taken on an unprecedented enforcement role. Last year, it established a “denaturalization task force” to strip citizenship from those found to have obtained it by fraudulent means. It has also drafted regulations to no longer allow spouses of those in the country on guest worker visas to obtain work permits.The elimination of the international division would have the most potential impact on family reunification, the cornerstone of the country’s immigration system for five decades, which Mr. Trump derisively refers to as “chain migration.”Transferring the workload to already overburdened staff at the State Department and the citizenship agency’s domestic offices could lead to long delays, several agency officials and immigration lawyers said, keeping many applicants stranded abroad for months or longer as they and their loved ones navigate the necessary red tape needed to immigrate.To the extent that work can be completed domestically or electronically, it has already been transferred, the current and former officials said.“Its core mission is family reunification,” said Justin Cox, senior supervising attorney at the International Refugee Assistance Project in New York. “In the best of circumstances, it is going to cause significant delays across the board. In the worst of circumstances, it could keep families apart for years.”United States military personnel abroad would no longer be able to file immigrant visa petitions for spouses and family members locally.“It’s going to smack all government employees abroad, including folks in the military, who have a foreign spouse or kids they are trying to bring to the U.S. legally,” said Ms. Stock, who handles a number of such cases in her immigration practice.She said that one of her clients, an American defense contractor living on a military base in Kuwait who married a Yemeni woman, could be forced to remain apart from his wife for an extended period of time after returning to the United States if he cannot apply for her green card abroad.“If he can’t get it through international operations, he will be thrown into the general U.S. backlog and have to be separated from his wife for more than a year,” Ms. Stock said.The average processing time for all cases at Citizenship and Immigration Services surged by 46 percent over the past two fiscal years and 91 percent since 2014, according to the American Immigration Lawyers Association.Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFRONT PAGEAn article on Monday about the relationship between President Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu misstated the surname and position of a journalist at The Forward. She is Batya Ungar-Sargon, not Ungar-Garson, and she is The Forward’s opinion editor, not a columnist.•An article on Saturday about the conviction of the former executive Edward P. Mangano and his wife, Linda, referred incorrectly to the couple’s first trial. Witnesses testified about Richard Walker, the former deputy executive of Nassau County; it is not the case that Mr. Walker himself testified. It also referred incorrectly to the benefits that prosecutors said Mr. Mangano received from a restaurateur. He was not accused of receiving free limousine rides.INTERNATIONALAn article on Monday about the victims of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 misidentified a United Nations agency whose employees were among the victims in the Ethiopian Airways plane crash. It is the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, not the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights.NATIONALAn article on Saturday about anti-immigration groups that have expressed dismay over President Trump’s recent comments on legal immigration misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.NEW YORKBecause of an editing error, a headline with an article on Monday about bishops across the country acknowledging their failures in the Roman Catholic Church’s sexual abuse crisis misstated a quotation by Archbishop Leonard P. Blair of Hartford, who was offering a special Mass of Reparations at a parish in Guilford, Conn., last month. He said, “I ask forgiveness of God,” not “I ask forgiveness from God.”SPORTSA picture caption in an article on Monday about the golfer Rory McIlroy’s defeat at the Arnold Palmer Invitational misidentified Mr. McIlroy’s partner in the final pairing. It was Matthew Fitzpatrick, not Francesco Molinari.ARTSAn article on March 2 about movies and television shows to stream this month misstated the premiere date of “Shrill.” It is March 15, not March 8.SPECIAL SECTION: THE ARTFUL HOMESeveral picture captions in an article on Thursday about North African-inspired design misspelled the surname of a Tangier-based interior designer. He is Frank de Biasi, not Frank DiBiasi.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Monday about the artist Carolee Schneemann misstated the surname of a co-founder of a gallery that represented her. She is Wendy Olsoff, not Osloff.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNot so long ago, the party had a clear platform. It no longer does.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.The Democratic Party no longer has a clear policy on immigration.It used to, not so long ago. The party’s leaders knew what they favored and felt comfortable saying so. Their platform generally included: 1) a path to citizenship for immigrants who came to this country illegally but had since obeyed the law; 2) deportation of undocumented immigrants who had since broken the law in significant ways; 3) fairly robust border security and investigation of companies employing undocumented immigrants, to hold down current and future levels of illegal immigration.Besides favoring these policies, Democrats were also willing to talk about the benefits of limiting immigration and of assimilation. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Consider this 2015 statement from Bernie Sanders: “What right-wing people in this country would love is an open-border policy … I don’t believe in that. I think we have to raise wages in this country.”Or this 2006 line from Barack Obama, in his book, “The Audacity of Hope”: “When I see Mexican flags waved at pro-immigration demonstrations, I sometimes feel a flush of patriotic resentment.”Or this comment last year from Hillary Clinton: “I think Europe needs to get a handle on migration.” It earned her immediate condemnation from progressives and a scathing story in The Times.I understand why the Democratic Party has moved to the left on immigration policy over the past few years. It is, in significant part, an honorable reaction to Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant racism and a desire to stand up for immigrants during his presidency. The Trump administration has separated immigrant children from their parents, and Democrats are trying to protect those families.What’s less clear to me is exactly what the Democratic Party’s new position on immigration is.Questions to answerAmong the questions that I’d like Democrats to answer:What kind of border security do you believe in? Do you favor the policies Obama put in place to reduce illegal immigration — or a different approach?Do you believe that immigrants who enter this country illegally should be allowed to stay? If not, which categories of undocumented immigrants should be at risk of deportation? (In a 2016 debate, Clinton and Sanders didn’t offer clear answers when Univision’s Jorge Ramos asked similar questions.)What do you believe should happen to future levels of legal immigration? And what should happen to the mix of different categories of immigration? Should family connections play as large a role as they now do? Should workplace skills continue to play a small role?Do you believe, as Sanders suggested in 2015, that more immigration can reduce wages, especially for lower-income workers and recent immigrants themselves?My own view is that the country benefits from significant limits on immigration. As David Frum notes in a recent cover story for The Atlantic, immigration levels were quite low for much of the 20th century — from roughly the 1910s through the 1970s. The slowdown helped many of the immigrants who arrived in the waves before 1910 (including parts of my family). They faced less competition in the labor market. Labor unions were more easily able to grow, because they were organizing an increasingly assimilated workforce. The immigration slowdown played a role in the great income surge of the post-World War II decades. Today, I’d favor a policy with a lot of similarities to the Democrats’ platform of the Obama years, including humane treatment of immigrants already here plus tight border security. I’d change the mix of immigration, to let in fewer low-skills immigrants and more high-skills immigrants. Doing so has the potential to reduce inequality and lift economic growth.I recognize that this platform is probably too conservative for many Democrats. But high levels of immigration, stretching over many decades, is not an American tradition. It’s something new, and it brings both upsides and downsides.For anyone who wants to think through the subject, I recommend Frum’s article. (The politician quotations above come from it.) For critiques of Frum’s piece, see Nancy LeTourneau in Washington Monthly and Noah Smith of Bloomberg Opinion.If nothing else, I’d urge Democrats to look at public opinion on immigration with an open mind. The polling isn’t as favorable as some of the recent conversation on the left has suggested. In a recent Gallup poll, 47 percent of Americans called illegal immigration a critical threat and another 30 percent called it an important threat.I wouldn’t call it either of those. But I do think it’s folly — both substantively and politically — to pretend that more immigration is always better than less. And I think it’s a mistake for Democrats to be so unclear about what their party’s immigration agenda is.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook Advertisement