AdvertisementSupported byBy Ernesto LondoñoRIO DE JANEIRO — President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil said Wednesday that his government would no longer be a party to a United Nations migration accord signed last month, arguing that “not just anyone can come into our home.”The decision is not expected to have any immediate impact because the deal, known as the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration, is not legally binding on the more than 160 nations that signed it.But it may signal that Latin America’s largest nation, which has long been welcoming to foreigners, may adopt a harder line on immigration as Mr. Bolsonaro’s far-right administration gets settled.“Brazil has a sovereign right to decide whether or not it accepts migrants,” Mr. Bolsonaro said in a message posted on Twitter. “Anyone who comes here must be subject to our laws and customs, and must sing our national anthem and respect our culture.”Diplomats spent nearly two years negotiating the migration accord, which sought to lay out basic principles to address the surge in global migration in a humane and pragmatic manner.The 34-page pact called for the collection of better data on migrant movements, the strengthening of legal paths to migration, efforts to combat human trafficking and cooperation to ease the safe return of migrants to their original countries.The compact does not bar signatories from enacting and enforcing their own immigration laws, although Mr. Bolsonaro suggested that it would.“Not just anyone is allowed to enter into our house, just like not just anyone will enter Brazil thanks to a pact adopted by third parties,” he wrote.Immigration policy was not a dominant issue during last year’s presidential campaign in Brazil, which Mr. Bolsonaro won by vowing to take an iron-fisted approach toward violent crime and graft.Yet Brazilians in some communities along the border with Venezuela have begun to criticize the country’s permissive immigration policies. Thousands of Venezuelans fleeing hunger and destitution have crossed into Brazil in recent months.Mr. Bolsonaro did not signal whether his government’s approach to the Venezuelan exodus would change, but he suggested Brazil would continue to embrace those in need.“We will never withhold help to those in need, but immigration cannot be indiscriminate,” he said in a second message on Twitter. “The defense of national sovereignty was one of the cornerstones of our campaign and it will be a priority of our government.”Mauricio Santoro, a professor of political science at Rio de Janeiro State University, said Mr. Bolsonaro was misguided in dropping out of the accord.“There are close to one million foreigners in Brazil and more than three million Brazilians abroad,” he said. “It’s in the national interest to have good global rules to protect immigrants and to participate in creating them.”Mr. Santoro said that the decision would mean little to Mr. Bolsonaro’s core supporters. But it aligns Brazil’s president ideologically with other conservative leaders who have risen to power by opposing multilateral approaches to contentious issues, including climate change and the treatment of refugees.The Trump administration was among the handful of countries that chose not to join the migration accord, which was signed in early December. Other nations that rejected it included Hungary, Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Australia and Israel.People from Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, Bolivia, Chile, Peru, Colombia and Ecuador are allowed to work and become permanent residents in Brazil easily, under a visa accord in force for several years.As the exodus from Venezuela has intensified, Brazil has allowed Venezuelans to obtain work documents and has helped a few thousand resettle from border communities to larger cities with more job opportunities.Follow Ernesto Londoño on Twitter: @londonoe.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — President Donald Trump said on Friday he was considering sending illegal immigrants in the country to so-called sanctuary cities, prompting U.S. mayors to accept such an offer as the battle over border security raged.Frustrated by rising numbers of undocumented immigrants arriving at the southern border and a failure to get Congress to fully fund a U.S.-Mexico border wall, Trump taunted Democrats by dangling the possibility of an influx of illegal immigrants into their communities."Due to the fact that Democrats are unwilling to change our very dangerous immigration laws, we are indeed, as reported, giving strong considerations to placing Illegal Immigrants in Sanctuary Cities only," Trump wrote on Twitter.Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney responded in a statement: "While the Trump administration's proposal shows their disdain to basic human dignity, the City (Philadelphia) would be prepared to welcome these immigrants just as we have embraced our immigrant communities for decades."In February, a federal appeals court said the Trump administration could not terminate federal grants to Philadelphia for its refusal to cooperate with immigration agents seeking to deport immigrants. In Chicago, Mayor Rahm Emanuel said in a statement "We would welcome these migrants with open arms, just as we welcomed Syrian refugees, just as we welcomed Puerto Ricans displaced by Hurricane Maria and just as we welcome Rohingya refugees fleeing genocide in Myanmar." Sanctuary cities are local jurisdictions that generally give undocumented immigrants safe harbour by refusing to use their resources to help enforce federal immigration laws that could lead to deportations.Those localities argue that it is not their responsibility to get involved in federal enforcement and that doing so could hinder policing efforts within communities. The Washington Post first reported on Thursday that the White House has been considering a plan for transporting immigrants in detention and releasing them into sanctuary cities that are Democratic strongholds.The newspaper reported there was resistance from some high-level Department of Homeland Security officials concerned about several aspects of such a plan, including the potential costs.Nevertheless, Trump, speaking to reporters at the White House on Friday, said of sanctuary cities, "We can give them an unlimited supply" of immigrants.White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said these would be "illegal aliens that are already set for release," which likely would include families with children. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi's hometown of San Francisco is another sanctuary city.In remarks to reporters on Friday, Pelosi, a Democrat, said she was not aware of the newspaper report. But she added, "it's just another notion that is unworthy of the presidency of the United States and disrespectful of the challenges that we face, as a country, as a people, to address who we are, a nation of immigrants."Pelosi was in Leesburg, Virginia, where House Democrats were wrapping up a three-day retreat.One immigration expert, who asked not to be identified, noted that undocumented immigrants in federal custody could be at one of several stages of the adjudication process and that Trump likely has the power to have them sent to different jurisdictions from where they are being held.But the source added, "This is a stunt. It doesn't enhance the efficiency of the process."Trump's challenge to Democrats came one day after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican like Trump, told reporters that he wanted to launch bipartisan negotiations to seek solutions to the nation's immigration woes.In March alone, 103,492 undocumented immigrants have been taken into custody along the southern border or turned away. Many of them are from El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala and are seeking asylum in the United States away from high levels of violent crime and illegal drugs at home. (Reporting by Mohammad Zargham and Richard Cowan in Washington and Susan Cornwell in Leesburg, Virginia; editing by Richard Chang and James Dalgleish)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):12:30 p.m.President Donald Trump now says that his proposal to send migrants to so-called sanctuary cities is taking effect.Trump is tweeting that, "Those Illegal Immigrants who can no longer be legally held" in custody "will be, subject to Homeland Security, given to Sanctuary Cities and States!"He also says that, "Congress must fix the laws and loopholes."It's unclear, however, whether Homeland Security is taking any steps to implement the contentious plan. Lawyers there had previously told the White House that the idea was unfeasible and a misuse of funds. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is already strapped for cash.The White House and Department of Homeland Security did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Monday.___11:40 a.m.Top House Democrats are asking White House and agency officials for internal documents about the administration proposal to send detained migrants to "sanctuary cities."The chairmen of three House committees sent a letter Monday to the White House and Department of Homeland Security requesting emails and other documents discussing the idea, including its legal justifications and potential implications.The letter says it's "shocking" the administration would consider such an action "for purely political reasons."President Donald Trump has said he wants to explore the move as part of his drive to tighten immigration laws. The proposal was twice rejected by administration officials.Officials in sanctuary cities limit cooperation with federal authorities seeking migrants in the U.S. illegally. They tend to be in Democratic areas.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Eileen SullivanWASHINGTON — President Trump said on Friday that his administration was “strongly” considering releasing migrants detained at the border into mostly Democratic “sanctuary cities,” suggesting that the idea should make liberals “very happy” because of their immigration policies.Due to the fact that Democrats are unwilling to change our very dangerous immigration laws, we are indeed, as reported, giving strong considerations to placing Illegal Immigrants in Sanctuary Cities only........The Radical Left always seems to have an Open Borders, Open Arms policy – so this should make them very happy!“We are looking at the possibility, strongly looking at it to be honest with you,” he said on Friday in response to a question about the proposal.“We might as well do what they always say they want,” Mr. Trump said if Democrats do not agree to new immigration policies. “We’ll bring them to sanctuary city areas and let that particular area take care of it,” he said, adding that California welcomed the idea of more people coming to the state.“We can give them a lot. We can give them an unlimited supply,” he said.The comments came a day after the administration said the policy proposal was never seriously considered. But after the president’s Twitter posts on Friday, a White House spokesman said Democrats should work with the administration to welcome migrants into their districts.“Democrats say we must have open borders and that illegal immigrants have a right to be in this country at all costs,” the spokesman, Hogan Gidley, said, adding, “so they should be working with the administration to find the best ways to transport those illegal aliens that are already set for release, into communities in their districts and states.”Democratic lawmakers do not want “open borders,” as the president has suggested. They favor improving border security, but they do not support many of Mr. Trump’s hard-line immigration policy proposals, such as building a wall along the southwestern border.Last year, Trump administration officials had floated the idea of transporting migrants to sanctuary cities, which do not strictly adhere to federal immigration laws, as a way to address the influx of migrants crossing the border with Mexico.One of the highest-profile sanctuary cities is San Francisco, home to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who is one of the president’s top political rivals and a thorn in his efforts to change American immigration laws. The White House raised the proposal again in February, suggesting it could punish Democrats for rejecting budget requests for border security.Ms. Pelosi’s office condemned the Trump administration for the idea, which the Department of Homeland Security said on Thursday was ultimately rejected.But Mr. Trump’s tweets on Friday indicated it was not off the table, and the president appeared to revel in the Democratic outrage, saying, “The Radical Left always seems to have an Open Borders, Open Arms policy – so this should make them very happy!”Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, a state with several sanctuary cities, criticized the president’s proposal.“Trump’s plan to release migrants into ‘enemy’ cities as if they are some kind of contagion is reprehensible,” Mr. Markey tweeted. “Trump is obsessed with the border and sanctuary cities because he only wins by dividing people.”There has been an influx of migrant families crossing the southern border into the United States, exceeding the staffing and resources available for immigration enforcement. And with a shortage of space in shelters and detention centers, immigration officials have been releasing migrants into the country as they wait to appear before an immigration court. Those courts are so backlogged with cases that it can be months or years before the migrants are called to appear before a judge.A top immigration official at the Department of Homeland Security pushed back last year against the proposal to release migrants into sanctuary cities, and said it would create “an unnecessary operational burden” on Immigration and Customs Enforcement.Currently, these migrants are released into border towns. Transporting them to sanctuary cities, which are scattered across the country — with some as far away as Massachusetts and Vermont — would come at a great expense.Typically, reallocating homeland security funds intended for a specific purpose would require approval from House and Senate appropriators.Some immigration advocates saw Mr. Trump’s proposal as an attempt to stoke racial tensions across the country.George Gascón, the district attorney for San Francisco, said the proposal was “the clearest sign yet that the president fully intends to chart a path to re-election on the back of racist rhetoric and policies intended to divide us.”Janet Murguía, the president of UnidosUS, formerly the National Council of La Raza, called the proposal “reprehensible.”“It seems that not only is President Trump attempting to utilize human beings, who have already experienced a traumatic situation, as tools to get back at political foes, but as a vehicle to further divide communities by stoking racial tensions,” she said in a statement.Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWILMINGTON, Del. — The U.S. government can continue at least temporarily to send asylum seekers back to Mexico after President Donald Trump scored a rare ruling in his favor on Friday from the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals.The asylum program was set to be shut down at 8 p.m. EDT (midnight GMT) by an order issued on Monday by U.S. District Court Judge Richard Seeborg, but the Trump administration had asked for the Court of Appeals in San Francisco to intervene.The Court of Appeals issued a two-paragraph order saying the lower court injunction was temporarily stayed while the parties prepare to submit arguments next week on the government's request for a longer stay that would remain in place for the months-long appeals process.The government told the Court of Appeals in papers filed late Thursday that the United States faced "a humanitarian and security crisis" at the southern border and needed to the policy to deal with surging number of refugees.Seeborg had ruled on Monday the policy was contrary to U.S. immigration law and ordered a nationwide injunction to halt the program, but delayed implementation of his order to allow the government to appeal."This is an interim step while the court considers the government’s stay request," said a statement from Judy Rabinovitz, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union who represented plaintiffs in the case and who opposed the stay.Since January, the administration has sent more than 1,000 asylum seekers, mostly from Central America, back to Mexico to wait the months or years it can take to process claims through an overloaded immigration system. Although it is appealing and the lower court order had yet to take effect, Reuters reporters confirmed that the Trump administration was allowing some asylum seekers from Mexico to return to the United States.Trump has bristled at limits on his administration's ability to detain asylum seekers while they fight deportation, and the administration was in the midst of expanding the program when Seeborg blocked it.The 9th Circuit Court has been a frequent target for Trump's criticisms of the judicial system, which has blocked his immigration policies on numerous occasions.After Seeborg ruled on Monday, Trump tweeted: "A 9th Circuit Judge just ruled that Mexico is too dangerous for migrants. So unfair to the U.S. OUT OF CONTROL!" (Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware; Editing by Tom Brown)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn KennyJudy Wood is a real-life lawyer who — after moving to California and getting a job with an immigration law firm — discovered a passion that, by this film’s telling, led her to a case that changed asylum policies in the United States. Directed by Sean Hanish from a script by Dmitry Portnoy, “Saint Judy” begins by underscoring the title character’s resourcefulness, then playing up her pluckiness and single-mom status.These latter components recall “Erin Brockovich,” the acclaimed fact-based drama of 2000 that starred Julia Roberts. Judy also has a crusty boss, Ray Hernandez (Alfred Molina), a soured one-time idealist unimpressed with Judy’s enthusiasm for a particular subject: Asefa, an Afghan woman in a detention center, who is so drugged up by her keepers as to be practically catatonic.Judy (Michelle Monaghan) wants to wean Asefa off her meds, learn her story and make a case for asylum. Ray just wants papers processed and bills paid, so he fires Judy. Judy starts her own firm, stumbles upon an intern who happens to own a Porsche (good for fast rides to and from detention centers) and gets busy.Monaghan herself is a plucky and resourceful performer. It’s nice to see her in a movie in which she has more to do than parachute in and evince concern for Tom Cruise, as she’s been doing in the last 10 or 20 “Mission Impossible” pictures. But while the viewer can intuit that Hanish has a strong clear story to tell, the director too often tricks things up with noncredible flashbacks, fatty getting-from-one-place-to-another montages scored to anthemic pop and other extraneous matter. This diffuses what could have been a more engaging and perhaps powerful movie.Movie data powered by IMDb.comRated PG-13 for language and themes. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — Top Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives on Monday demanded documents from the Trump administration over a White House proposal to release migrants from detention and transport them to "sanctuary cities."U.S. media reported on Thursday the administration had considered the idea, which would send migrants and asylum seekers who had crossed the U.S. border with Mexico to districts represented by Democratic lawmakers.The following day, Trump confirmed the proposal, saying in a tweet that he was strongly considering it.Sanctuary cities are local jurisdictions that generally refuse to use their resources to help enforce federal immigration laws against undocumented immigrants that could lead to deportations.The localities say they do not have any responsibility to involve themselves in federal enforcement and doing so could impede policing efforts within communities.Since many of these jurisdictions are represented by Democrats, critics saw the plan as a way to taunt Democrats by dangling the possibility of an influx of illegal immigrants into their communities.In a letter addressed to the White House chief of staff and acting homeland security secretary, the heads of the House Judiciary, Oversight and Homeland Security panels - Representatives Jerry Nadler, Elijah Cummings and Bennie Thompson - called the idea "a bizarre and unlawful attempt to score political points.""Not only does the Administration lack the legal authority to transfer detainees in this manner, it is shocking that the President and senior Administration officials are even considering manipulating release decisions for purely political reasons," the three lawmakers wrote.They set a deadline for the White House, the Department of Homeland Security, and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency to send communications, documents and memoranda on the subject to the lawmakers by May 3.On Sunday, White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told ABC News the administration had initially concluded the proposal was too logistically challenging, but the White House was contemplating its options because the president liked the idea.The House has been controlled by a Democratic majority since January, but the Senate remains in the hands of Trump's Republican Party. Several immigration proposals, including some backed by the White House, failed to receive the necessary number of votes to pass Congress when Republicans controlled both chambers of Congress.U.S. officers arrested or denied entry to more than 103,000 people along the border with Mexico in March, an increase of more than a third over February and more than twice as many as in the same period last year. (Reporting by Makini Brice; Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Paul Simao)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sam RobertsEdward A. Morrison, a former New York deputy mayor whose avowal that John Lennon was a valuable cultural asset to the city helped Lennon avoid deportation in the 1970s, died on Saturday in Ocala, Fla. He was 85.His son Andrew said the cause was congestive heart failure.Mr. Morrison, a lawyer, was among the advisers to Lennon and his wife, the artist and singer Yoko Ono, when Lennon’s residency in the United States was challenged by the Nixon administration in 1972.He was also a friend of the couple’s; Lennon and Ms. Ono had attended Mr. Morrison’s swearing-in as deputy mayor in 1972.Lennon had been living with Ms. Ono in New York for about a year when his immigration troubles began. They stemmed from his pleading guilty to a misdemeanor charge of cannabis possession in London in 1968. The White House contended that American immigration law barred the admission of convicted drug offenders. In 1973, the United States issued a deportation order.Leon Wildes, Lennon’s lawyer, discovered that despite the government’s claim, deportation was not automatic. Immigration officials, he said, could exercise prosecutorial discretion on the basis of humanitarian, political and other criteria.(Moreover, it turned out that the drug cited in the 1968 case was not marijuana but hashish, which was not covered by the American immigration law.)By the early 1970s, Lennon was widely known not just for his music as a former member of the Beatles but also for his antiwar activism, and F.B.I. files later revealed that the White House had wanted to deport him largely because of his potential to sway newly enfranchised voters against President Richard M. Nixon and the Vietnam War. (The federal voting age had been lowered from 21 to 18 in 1971.)Mr. Wildes’s son Michael said in a phone interview on Tuesday that Mr. Morrison had provided valuable help “in keeping the case in the public eye and building up public sentiment against the deportation efforts.”Mr. Morrison’s boss, Mayor John V. Lindsay, also testified on Lennon’s behalf, as did a host of artists, musicians and writers, including Joan Baez, Bob Dylan, John Updike, Joyce Carol Oates, Jasper Johns, Leonard Bernstein and Joseph Heller — all arguing, like Mr. Morrison, that Lennon was a valuable cultural asset to the United States.The campaign proved successful. After Nixon’s resignation in 1974, the government relented, saying it no longer objected to Mr. Lennon’s presence in the United States. He was granted a green card in 1976 but was murdered, in 1980, before he could apply for citizenship.Mr. Morrison was Lindsay’s liaison to the City Council and the Board of Estimate, the legislative body that voted on city contracts, franchises and zoning. (It was declared unconstitutional in 1989.)In 1974, Mr. Morrison, a vice chairman of the New York State Liberal Party, was nominated for governor by the party. He was, however, just a stand-in: The Liberals endorsed Hugh L. Carey after Mr. Carey won the Democratic nomination.Later, as chairman of the state Crime Victims Compensation Board, Mr. Morrison implemented legislation that took the profits from books and other income earned by convicted criminals and diverted the proceeds to their victims.Edward Allen Morrison was born on April 9, 1933, in Brooklyn to Samuel and Sadie (Lansberg) Morrison. His father was a dentist and his mother an elementary-school teacher. The younger Mr. Morrison attended Stuyvesant High School, Brooklyn College and Columbia Law School.After leaving government, he practiced law in New York City and in the Hudson Valley before moving to Florida six years ago.He married Elaine Morrison (who was no relation, but friends had introduced them because they had the same surname). She survives him, along with their sons, Dean, Russell, Andrew and William, and eight grandchildren.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Katie Rogers, Zolan Kanno-Youngs and Michael D. ShearPALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump said on Friday that there would be a “very good likelihood” that he would seal off the United States border with Mexico next week, even as he moved to punish Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador for migrant caravans by cutting off all foreign aid to the countries.The moves escalated a sustained berating of countries he blames for being unable to stop the flow of migrants trying to make their way north.“I will close the border if Mexico doesn’t get with it,” Mr. Trump said to reporters who had gathered at Mar-a-Lago, his winter retreat in Florida. “If Mexico doesn’t stop it.”At Mr. Trump’s direction, the State Department on Friday began the process of informing Congress that it intended to end the foreign aid. A person with knowledge of the decision said that Mr. Trump met with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Thursday, after which diplomats were directed to begin the process of cutting off the funds by drafting letters to lawmakers. Mr. Trump publicly said as much on Friday in comments to reporters.“No money goes there anymore,” Mr. Trump said. “We’re giving them tremendous aid. We stopped payment.”The State Department issued a statement late on Friday saying: “At the secretary’s instruction, we are carrying out the president’s direction and ending FY 2017 and FY 2018 foreign assistance programs for the Northern Triangle. We will be engaging Congress as part of this process.”Mr. Trump has threatened to close off the border and cut off aid to the three countries — known as the Northern Triangle — several times before and has not followed through.But his comments on Friday signaled a new escalation and a diplomatic assault on America’s neighbors in the hemisphere as his administration confirmed that it would review ways to reshuffle Border Patrol agents, shut down traffic lanes and close ports of entry at the southwest border. He began the day with a morning tweet saying that he would close the border “next week,” and then told reporters that he was prepared to close off trade and commercial ports of entry.A full or partial sealing of the border would effectively close off the United States from one of its largest trading partners, but it could leave American citizens who cross back and forth with a sluggish or potentially nonexistent system of returning to the United States.“I’m not playing games,” Mr. Trump said on Friday, as he threatened to close the border with Mexico.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]The president has been emboldened since the release of a report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, found that his campaign had not cooperated with the Russian government. And a partisan upholding of his national emergency declaration over a wall along the southwestern border has prompted Mr. Trump to ratchet up harsh words against immigration as he seeks to galvanize supporters ahead of the 2020 presidential election.As he engaged in multiple photo opportunities throughout the day, Mr. Trump’s actions and comments indicated that his mind was not on the scenes at hand but on immigration.“How are we doing at the border?” he asked a military official on a tour of Lake Okeechobee, the site of a restoration project in the central part of the state. During a meeting at Mar-a-Lago to announce that Linda McMahon, who has led the Small Business Administration, had resigned, he again turned to immigration.“We have the most laughed-at immigration laws of anywhere in the world,” Mr. Trump said to reporters as he and Ms. McMahon sat in the ornate front room of the club. “They’re the Democrats’ laws, and I got stuck with them.”Mr. Trump’s decision to end the aid to the Central American countries is likely to anger members of Congress from both parties, who have supported spending money to try to address the root causes of the violence that has caused migrants to flee those countries to come to the United States.Currently, the United States spends about $620 million a year for gang prevention programs and other initiatives aimed at helping support civil society in the three countries. Advocates say that cutting the funds will only accelerate the migrant flows into the United States.But the president has repeatedly expressed anger that the United States sends money to the countries even as caravans of migrants make their way to the border.In an email from the director of the Office of U.S. Foreign Assistance Resources on Friday night, senior State Department and United States Agency for International Development officials were instructed to “redirect” all 2018 assistance “away from these countries” and to “cease and desist” all 2017 spending already started.The email sent State Department officials scrambling to carry out the president’s order. It was unclear how quickly the funding would cease since the governments had not yet been notified formally of the decision.It is also unclear whether the department can redirect all of the money to other parts of the world. Some of the money meant for the 2017 fiscal year has already been allocated to specific contracts, so it might not be able to be withdrawn, according to a person familiar with the effort.Mr. Trump told reporters that he would consider shutting down ports along the border, a decision that could imperil the transit of goods between the United States and Mexico. According to government figures, Mexico is the United States’ third-largest goods trading partner, with $557.6 billion worth of products flowing across the border in both directions.A move by Mr. Trump to shut down or drastically curb trade with Mexico would pose significant risks to the American economy. It would also represent a stunning reversal in trade relations between the two countries, which last August put their differences aside to renegotiate their portion of the North American Free Trade Agreement. The new deal, known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, still needs to be approved by Congress.The president lamented that Mexico was making a “fortune” off the United States, and said Mexico’s immigration laws were the “strongest immigration laws of anywhere in the world.” (Mexico is much weaker than the United States at enforcing its border laws.) Mr. Trump also again invoked migrant caravans — including one containing hundreds of people heading to the United States — as a reason Mexico needed to act.“Mexico is tough,” Mr. Trump said. “If they don’t stop them, we’re closing the border.”Americans would feel the effects in other ways. Border control agencies are already reviewing ways to slow down immigration processing at the border. A senior homeland security official confirmed on Friday that shutting down ports of entry along the southwest border was “on the table” to handle the surge in migrants seeking asylum.Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said in a statement that she had asked volunteers to add more support at the border, and suggested that American citizens may encounter difficulty getting through as a result.“Make no mistake: Americans may feel effects from this emergency,” Ms. Nielsen said. “As personnel are reallocated to join the crisis-response effort, there may be commercial delays, higher vehicle wait times at the border and longer pedestrian lines.”She added that “despite these impacts, we cannot shirk our responsibility to the American people to do everything possible to secure our country while also upholding our humanitarian values.”Stephen H. Legomsky, a law professor at Washington University in St. Louis, said there were a few options available to Mr. Trump if he wanted to move to stop the flow of people at the border, including slowing down processing at ports of entry. The administration has already limited the number of migrants who can apply for asylum each day.“He could pretend that this was necessary in the interest of national security,” Mr. Legomsky said, “and it could be that the courts would be hesitant to second guess a national security claim by a president.”Mr. Legomsky said putting up trade roadblocks and slowing down the processing of people would have harmful effects, both on American citizens who could find themselves “marooned” in Mexico and on families, including groups of women and children, who are fleeing violence and poverty.“There’s a huge humanitarian concern,” Mr. Legomsky said. “So many of the people are these Central American mothers and children fleeing from high levels of violence. They would be effectively stuck in the border areas which are also extremely dangerous.”On Thursday, the president said that he did not share concern over the plight of people in danger. In front of supporters at a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich., he used harsh language to describe the thousands of people who have tried to flee violence and poverty, calling the problem an “invasion” and referring to asylum seekers as a “big fat con job.”In a news conference in El Paso on Wednesday, Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, said that an influx of migrants had reached a “breaking point.”In February, there were 76,000 crossings at the border, which marked an 11-year high and signaled that the Trump administration’s harsher policies have not stopped the flow of people trying to enter the country.The threat to close the border is one that Mr. Trump has made previously but not carried out. But he has not yet attached a deadline by which he would take such a drastic measure, and did not respond to reporters who asked on Friday whether he would set one.The homeland security official said the Trump administration had not yet decided to shut down a major port, but that the department had been forced to divert agents from ports of entries and interior checkpoints to handle large groups of migrants trying to illegally come into the United States, including families.Katie Rogers reported from Palm Beach, Fla., and Michael D. Shear and Zolan Kanno-Youngs from Washington. Alan Rappeport contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — President Donald Trump may have threatened to transport illegal immigrants to so-called sanctuary cities to "make everybody crazy" and generate media attention, Republican U.S. Senator Rick Scott said on Sunday.Trump said on Friday he was considering sending illegal immigrants to sanctuary cities, prompting U.S. mayors to accept such an offer as the battle over border security rages. Sanctuary cities are local jurisdictions that generally give undocumented immigrants safe harbor by refusing to use their resources to help enforce federal immigration laws that could lead to deportations. Since many such jurisdictions are Democratic strongholds, the proposal was seen by critics of Trump as an attempt by the president to punish Democrats for refusing to support funding for the construction of a wall on the southern U.S. border.It would, however, likely encounter a slew of logistical and legal obstacles, with some legal experts and advocacy groups saying the proposal could violate federal laws, including those barring the use of government funds for political purposes.Speaking to CNN's "State of the Union," Scott said he did not know if transporting immigrants to these jurisdictions was legal or illegal, and he suggested the president could be bluffing: "I mean maybe he's just saying this to make everybody crazy, make everybody talk about it on their shows."Scott, a former Florida governor who was elected to the U.S. Senate in November, has generally kept his distance from Trump and criticized him in the past over immigration policies and other issues.Frustrated by rising numbers of undocumented immigrants arriving at the southern border and a failure to get Congress to fully fund a U.S.-Mexico border wall, Trump has sought to taunt Democrats by dangling the possibility of an influx of illegal immigrants into their communities. Scott acknowledged the president's frustration over a lack of progress on addressing the influx of migrants, but said the administration had to comply with the law. "I'm sure the president is very frustrated because we're not securing our border, the Democrats are stopping this. But we have to comply with every law."Late on Saturday, Trump wrote on Twitter that the United States "has the absolute legal right" to transfer apprehended illegal immigrants to sanctuary cities, without citing evidence. "(T)his includes Gang Members, Drug Dealers, Human Traffickers, and Criminals of all shapes, sizes and kinds," he wrote.On Sunday, White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told ABC News' "This Week" that administration staff had initially concluded that transporting immigrants to sanctuary cities may prove too logistically challenging, but that the White House was exploring its options because "the president likes the idea." "We're looking to see if there are options that make it possible and doing a full and thorough and extensive review," Sanders said. Since Democrats have said they would welcome these individuals, "everybody gets a win out of it", she added.  (Reporting by Michelle Price; Editing by Nick Zieminski and Daniel Wallis)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersNEW YORK — Democratic U.S. mayors said on Friday their cities would welcome illegal immigrants, dismissing President Donald Trump's threats to transport people detained at the border to "sanctuary cities" as illustrating the White House's callous approach to the issue.Trump confirmed on Twitter that he wanted to transport people detained in his immigration crackdown at the U.S.-Mexico border to sanctuary cities, an informal designation for localities that refrain from assisting federal immigration authorities in detaining people living in the country illegally.Mayors from across the country were quick to respond to Trump's latest portrayal of immigrants and sanctuary cities as threats.In New York City, where nearly 40 percent of the population are immigrants, Mayor Bill de Blasio said Trump's immigration policy was rooted in cruelty."He uses people like pawns," de Blasio said in a statement. "New York City will always be the ultimate city of immigrants – the President's empty threats won't change that."In Philadelphia, known as the city of brotherly love, Mayor Jim Kenney said in a statement that his city "would be prepared to welcome these immigrants just as we have embraced our immigrant communities for decades." He said the White House was demonstrating "the utter contempt that the Trump Administration has for basic human dignity."The Republican president has made cracking down on illegal and legal immigration a centrepiece of his administration, and has regularly threatened to try to cut federal funding to programmes in generally Democratic-leaning sanctuary cities, counties and states."Due to the fact that Democrats are unwilling to change our very dangerous immigration laws, we are indeed, as reported, giving strong considerations to placing Illegal Immigrants in Sanctuary Cities only," Trump wrote on Twitter, confirming a Washington Post report. The mayor of Los Angeles, Eric Garcetti, responded by saying on Twitter: "These are people, not pawns, Mr. President."At least one governor, New Mexico's Michelle Lujan Grisham, weighed in, calling the plan "absurd, sad and all too characteristic of the president — not to mention indicative of a complete and cruel indifference to the plight of migrant families."The mayors of Oakland, California, and Takoma Park, Maryland, voiced similar reactions.Trump's latest move on immigration comes days after U.S. officials said they arrested or denied entry to over 103,000 people along the border with Mexico in March, more than twice as many as the same period last year."I am shocked but not surprised that once again this president is playing a cynical game with people's lives in order to score political points," Jesse Arreguin, the mayor of Berkeley, California, said in a statement. "Rather than supporting a real pathway to citizenship for the millions of immigrants in this country, he is fanning the flames of division." (Reporting by Jonathan Allen; editing by Jonathan Oatis and Leslie Adler)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA study shows the Asian-American gender academic gap starts later, giving educators insight into how to help boys of all races and pointing to the influence of social pressures. By Claire Cain MillerOver all, girls outperform boys in school. It starts as early as kindergarten. By the time students reach college, women graduate at a higher rate than men.But there’s an exception. Asian-American boys match the grades of Asian-American girls in elementary school, a new study has found. For them, the gender achievement gap doesn’t appear until adolescence — at which point they start doing worse as a group than Asian-American girls. The study adds to a growing body of research suggesting that boys’ underperformance is not because of anything innate to boys. Instead, it seems, it’s largely because of something external: their school environments and peer influences. Girls are encouraged to be diligent, cooperative and ambitious — all things that serve them well in school. Boys are more sensitive than girls to environmental influences, according to a variety of research, and they feel pressure to be strong, tough and athletic. They get the message that doing well in school is not masculine, social scientists say. Even in peer groups that prize good grades, it’s considered uncool to seem to try hard to earn them. Asian-American boys are somehow sheltered from that message in early childhood. The reasons could give parents and teachers information about how to help boys of all races reach their full potential. “These findings show it doesn’t have to be this way, that boys necessarily have to underachieve,” said Amy Hsin, the paper’s author and a sociologist at Queens College in New York. “How we parent, how we help children think about their masculinity, and school culture and peer norms have effects on their performance in school.” Looking at grade point averages of white and Asian-American students, she found that unlike white students, Asian-American boys and girls have no significant grade differences until ninth grade. Then, boys fall behind girls by the equivalent of one-third of a letter grade, about the same as the gender difference in white students’ grades, according to the new study, published last month in the journal Sociological Science. It used data on about 9,200 white and 1,700 Asian-American students from two national studies that followed the same students over time (the groups were too small to analyze differences among Asian ethnic groups.) The results are not definitive. The sample size is relatively small, and the analysis uses grades, which, unlike test scores, are influenced by teachers’ subjective assessments of students. Yet the results fit with other research that shows the effect of outside influences on academic performance, particularly for boys. One reason Asian-American children do so well as a group is that Asian immigrant families tend to be very focused on education, as the sociologists Jennifer Lee and Min Zhou described in their book, “The Asian American Achievement Paradox.” One goal of a 1965 U.S. immigration law, which also abolished severe restrictions against immigration from regions such as Asia, was to give preference to professionals with specialized skills. Partly as a result, a little more than half of Chinese immigrants to the United States have a college degree or higher, versus less than 10 percent of adults in China in recent years, Ms. Lee said. They have tended to prioritize that their children earn straight As; attend a good college; and become a doctor, lawyer, scientist or engineer, the authors wrote. They have also shared information about things like SAT tutors and A.P. courses with their less educated Asian-American peers. Another factor is the so-called model minority stereotype — that Asians as a group are supposed to be smart, successful and hard-working. This image masks high poverty and dropout rates among some Asian ethnic groups, yet as with all stereotypes, it can lead people to act in biased ways. Teachers tend to give Asian-American students higher grades and funnel them into advanced programs, the researchers found. Often, lower-performing students have risen to meet these expectations of them, an effect social scientists refer to as stereotype promise. For Asian-American boys, these influences change in adolescence, Ms. Hsin found, a time when children become more aware of their gender identity and are more influenced by peers. They also have to fight a pernicious perception that they are not masculine enough. “The model minority myth frames Asian boys as being kind of nerdy, caring too much about doing well, so that may cause them to become less academically attached,” Ms. Hsin said. “It’s not as stigmatizing for Asian girls because if you’re good at school and you really care, that kind of plays along with what you should be doing as a girl anyway.” The new study offers a clue about how much school environments affect boys’ academic achievement. Ms. Hsin found that the gender gap for Asian-Americans in high school was smaller in schools that were less sports-focused, and where boys did better over all. Other studies have also pinpointed the importance of the school and social environments, especially for boys. One working paper found that the best-performing students had a combination of behaviors typically considered male and female. It used nationally representative survey data about gender norms for about 12,000 high school students, linked with their high school transcripts. The most traditionally feminine girls and the most masculine boys had the lowest grades. The messages boys receive about how to be masculine come from local influences in their schools and communities and are often tied to to socioeconomic status, other research has shown. Boys perform better in school when achievement is considered to be desirable, and when they believe successful men get their power from education versus strength and toughness. Boys in high-income communities are more likely to get those messages, research has shown. Teachers’ expectations of students — and the biases behind them — also influence children’s performance. For example, white teachers are less likely than black teachers to refer black students to gifted programs, or to have high expectations for their potential. Yet as with Asian-American students, research shows that when teachers have high expectations for black students, they rise to meet them. The fact that boys’ achievement varies in different school environments is a hopeful sign for parents and educators, Ms. Hsin said, because it suggests ways to help all students. Encourage academic achievement, she said, and talk about how it leads to success. Researchers have other suggestions. Show them role models who got where they are by doing well in school. Emphasize the importance of hard work and daily practice, not innate skill. Encourage both boys and girls to embrace a full range of character traits, and not to feel limited by stereotypical gender roles. Place high expectations on children, and give them opportunities to meet them — regardless of skin color. Claire Cain Miller writes about gender, families and the future of work for The Upshot. She joined The Times in 2008 and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for public service for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @clairecm • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanThe federal government said this week it had effectively closed a teeming tent city for migrant children on the Texas border, a facility that opponents of the Trump administration’s tough immigration policies had described as a juvenile prison.But plans are now underway in Florida to nearly double the capacity of a similar, unregulated detention center for migrant teenagers, federal officials confirmed this week.The government plans to expand the number of children housed at a “temporary shelter” in Homestead, Fla., from 1,350 to 2,350 in January, according to a Dec. 26 letter from the Department of Health and Human Services outlining the plan.A department spokeswoman confirmed the plans, but said that the facility still houses only 1,100 minors as of this week. “As you know the numbers are unpredictable,” Lydia Holt, the spokeswoman, said in an email. “Our job is to be prepared and have capacity when/if needed.”Like the tent city in Texas, the facility in Florida, adjacent to Homestead Air Reserve Base, is a “temporary” or “influx” shelter on federal land. Thus, it is not subject to state regulations and inspections intended to guarantee child welfare — only to a loose set of Health and Human Services guidelines.In contrast, permanent shelters traditionally used to detain minors must abide by state requirements for staff vetting and training, as well as standards that ensure minors are educated and safe.The number of children in federal custody has been shrinking rapidly since the Trump administration last month eased a strict security policy that had delayed — often by months — the placement of newly arrived children with sponsors, typically relatives already in the United States.The Trump administration had required that everyone in a potential sponsor’s household submit fingerprints to the F.B.I. for a background check, which many families, some of whom are undocumented, were unwilling to do. Coupled with a surge in unaccompanied teenagers arriving at the southwest border, mostly from Central America, the policy prompted a shortage — and a scramble — for shelter beds.To help handle the overflow, the government in June opened the camp at Tornillo, Tex., a collection of tents on a barren patch of desert about 35 miles southeast of El Paso. It quickly grew to house more than 2,800 migrant teenagers. The camp had the look and feel of a military barracks, with what critics described as inadequate health care and education services.Children had little access to legal services. Instead of several hours of schooling a day, as is offered at licensed shelters for migrant children around the country, children at Tornillo were offered workbooks which they were under no obligation to complete, migrant advocates said.The Office of Inspector General in November criticized the facility’s failure to conduct F.B.I. fingerprint background checks on staff, and also said it had too few staff members to provide sufficient mental health care.Eventually, the private nonprofit operating the sprawling desert site informed the government that it did not wish to extend its management contract, setting it up to close.“This tent city should never have stood in the first place, but it is welcome news that it will be gone,” Will Hurd, the Republican congressman who represents the southwest Texas border region, wrote on Twitter.The number of migrant children under detention reached record numbers last year, an increase due to both the large numbers of children crossing the border and the roadblocks imposed by the Trump administration to releasing them to family members.The crunch has eased with the elimination of the policy requiring fingerprints of all adults in any household in which a migrant child is placed. Fingerprints are now only required of the adult who is sponsoring the minor.As of Jan. 13, about 10,500 migrant minors were held in more than 100 shelters across the country overseen by Health and Human Services, down from about 14,700 in December. Despite the recent decline, the number of children in federal custody remains substantially higher than a year ago, when about 7,550 were staying in shelters.The news that federal officials plan a significant expansion at the Homestead facility is a clear signal, immigration legal analysts say, that the Trump administration is not changing its policy of holding migrant teenagers in detention, but is merely changing the location.Senator Jeff Merkley, a Democrat from Oregon who led a congressional delegation to Tornillo last month and pressed for it to be shuttered, said that the expansion of Homestead shows that “the Trump administration has not changed its fundamental strategy of deliberately hurting kids as part of its ongoing strategy of deterrence.”“It’s a shell game of moving kids from one facility to another,” Mr. Merkley said in a telephone interview.The Homestead site, about 30 miles south of Miami, housed teenage migrants from June 2016 to April 2017, but closed after the number of children entering the country dwindled. It reopened in March 2018 amid the surge in arrivals and is now the country’s biggest detention site for unaccompanied minors.The facility’s “temporary” or “influx” shelter status suggests that children will be kept there only briefly. But the tent city at Tornillo was also intended to be a temporary home for a few hundred migrant children. Instead, its population multiplied and the stay of many children dragged on for months.The children at Homestead sleep in dorms with bunk beds, take classes inside a massive tent and eat meals at a dining hall. Some of the dorms are fashioned from former military barracks. As at other shelters, including state-licensed facilities, the children are not free to leave the site, which is fenced and guarded.“Homestead has the same maladies that Tornillo suffered from,” said Holly Cooper, a co-director of the immigration law clinic at the University of California at Davis.Ms. Cooper will visit Homestead next month with a team to assess whether it is in compliance with the terms of a 1997 consent decree, known as the Flores agreement, establishing guidelines for the treatment of minors in government custody. “We have received multiple complaints about the facility and will make the investigation of the conditions in Homestead a top priority for the coming months,” she said.The Miami-Dade County public school district has not been asked to provide teachers to work at the Homestead facility, even though the district staffed classrooms when the shelter previously opened under the Obama administration.The schools superintendent in Miami-Dade County, Alberto Carvalho, said that he raised a concern about the failure to provide certified teachers at Homestead in a letter last summer to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, but that she did not directly address his question. “It would appear to me that there is a continued inequity of the quality and standards of education provided to children in that shelter,” Mr. Carvalho said.Federal officials said the government was committed to providing excellent care for migrant youths at the facility, and said all staff members receive F.B.I. fingerprint background checks. “Even though Homestead is on federal property, we continue to maintain the high standards of care expected in our permanent shelters,” Ms. Holt, the H.H.S. spokeswoman, said in a statement.Patricia Mazzei contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesWilliam P. Barr appeared in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday for the first day of his confirmation hearing for attorney general. Mr. Barr pledged to allow the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to finish his investigation and promised to withstand political pressure from President Trump or other forces, saying his age, 68, and experience freed him to act independently. Mr. Barr unexpectedly qualified some of his unusually expansive views of executive power. He emphasized legal limits on the presidency and law enforcement independence. Mr. Barr defended as “entirely proper” an unsolicited memo he wrote criticizing Mr. Mueller’s examination of whether the president obstructed justice. key momentMr. Barr used his opening remarks to the committee to clarify that he has no intention of firing Mr. Mueller before his work is done and to indicate that he would provide “as much transparency as I can consistent with the law” around the investigation’s results. The rule of law, he insisted, should be above and outside of the politics that divide the nation.“It is in the best interest of everyone — the president, Congress and, most importantly, the American people — that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work,” Mr. Barr said. He added: “I will follow the special counsel regulations scrupulously and in good faith, and on my watch, Bob will be allowed to finish.”Mr. Mueller is believed to be in the final stages of his inquiry, which he took over from the F.B.I. in May 2017 after agents opened it nearly two and a half years ago.“The country needs a credible resolution of these issues,” Mr. Barr said.The fate of Mr. Mueller’s findings — an expected report — was a recurring topic. Mr. Barr said that Mr. Mueller’s report to the attorney general will be “confidential,” but the attorney general will then produce his own report to Congress based on that material. He said that he intended to be as transparent as possible given grand-jury secrecy rules, but that he would not let the White House edit or change it, as the president’s lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, has suggested may happen.“That will not happen,” Mr. Barr said.— Nicholas Fandos7:39 P.M.Throughout the hearing, Mr. Barr espoused surprisingly more moderate views than he has previously, and not only about presidential power and law-enforcement independence. He also found himself backpedaling a bit when pressed about his defense of Mr. Trump's push for an investigation into Hillary Clinton. Mr. Barr had said in 2017 that he saw far more basis to investigate the Obama administration’s approval of the sale of a Canadian mining company to a Russian state-owned corporation than to investigate possible Trump campaign coordination with Russia’s election interference.The sale, which was approved while Hillary Clinton was secretary of state, has been the subject of a conspiracy theory about Mrs. Clinton and her family’s foundation that circulates in some conservative circles despite being debunked.Mr. Barr initially suggested his comment, which appeared in a New York Times article, had been mischaracterized. The reporter who wrote the article, Peter Baker, tweeted Mr. Barr’s 2017 email containing the comment in full, putting to rest the possibility of misinterpretation. Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, later read aloud from the tweeted email during the hearing, noting that Mr. Barr had testified earlier about the seriousness of Russia’s election meddling and pressing him about why he would assert that the Uranium One sale deserved more scrutiny. Mr. Barr hemmed and hawed, acknowledging that he had “no specific information about Uranium One that would say that it had not been handled appropriately” and that he did not mean the Clinton Foundation merited a criminal investigation.He suggested that he been “using it really as an example of the kinds of things that were floating around and some people felt had to be looked at” too, to make the point that calling for investigations into political opponents was bad: “I don’t subscribe to this ‘lock her up’ stuff,” he said, referring to a popular chant at Mr. Trump’s political rallies about jailing Mrs. Clinton.— Charlie Savage5:51 P.M.The Justice Department has held for decades time that indicting or criminally prosecuting a president while in office would violate the Constitution by undermining his ability to do his job. Despite a spirited legal debate about the validity of those opinions, Mr. Barr said he saw no reason to revisit them.“I actually haven’t read those opinions in a long time, but I see no reason to change them,” he said, in response to prompt by Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, who said he believed the president could be indicted while in office and a trial postponed until his time there ended.— Nicholas Fandos5:32 P.M.Democrats tried repeatedly to get Mr. Barr to chastise Mr. Trump for his attacks on federal law enforcement and condemn his fanciful use of facts. Mr. Barr did not take the bait, and his response may offer an early glimpse of how he might navigate one of the most uncomfortable positions in the government — overseeing and defending an investigation loathed by the president who nominated him.Even as he offered a consistent defense of Mr. Mueller (“I have the utmost respect for Bob”) and pledged to defend his investigation, Mr. Barr pointedly declined to criticize the president directing unrelenting attacks on investigators and elements of the Justice Department itself. And he said he was not concerned by what Senator Mazie Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, called “the way Donald Trump undermines the institutions in our society that help us to maintain a moral consensus” with false information.Instead, Mr. Barr suggested that the president’s position was a reasonable one, at least as it pertained to the Mueller inquiry.“It’s understandable that if someone felt they were falsely accused they would view an investigation as something like a witch hunt where someone like you or me who doesn’t know the facts, you know, might not use that term,” Mr. Barr said.— Nicholas Fandos5:06 P.M.Senators of both parties extended career guidance, praise and even snacks to Liam Daly, Mr. Barr’s young grandson who sat through the hourslong hearing.Liam’s parents are both Justice Department leaders, and he was deeply engaged in the confirmation process.“You are doing great so far,” he wrote in a note to Mr. Barr that was captured by a Reuters photographer. “I am having so much fun.”After Mr. Barr said that Russia posed a threat to the United States, Liam offered a subtle adjustment. “I think Russia’s people are fine,” he wrote to his grandfather. “The government is the problem.”Liam, 8, is also an avid reader of the children’s edition of The New York Times, a Justice Department official confirmed; Mr. Barr’s wife bought him a subscription. Liam found a recent article on the Supreme Court interesting, the official said.— Katie Benner4:10 P.M.Senators have asked Mr. Barr about the last attorney general. They have called out former top F.B.I. officials by name. And they have spent an inordinate amount of time playfully counseling his grandson by name. But they have hardly mentioned the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker.Mr. Whitaker had proven to be a lightning rod for scrutiny since he took over the Justice Department when former Attorney General Jeff Sessions was fired late last year. He ignored the advice of ethics experts at the department and decided to take a direct role overseeing the Mueller investigation, an inquiry of which he has been highly critical, and Democrats argue that his temporary appointment was legally dubious in the first place.Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee announced on Tuesday that they had reached an agreement for Mr. Whitaker to testify in public on Feb. 8. The committee’s chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, said he expected Mr. Whitaker to appear “whether or not the current lapse in appropriations has been resolved, and whether or not the Senate has confirmed a new attorney general.”— Nicholas Fandos4:03 P.M.Mr. Barr took a hawkish stance on China that comports with the Trump administration’s view, calling it “the primary rival of the United States” and praising former Attorney General Jeff Sessions for cracking down on Chinese intellectual property theft and espionage.While he was general counsel of Verizon, Mr. Barr said, he was well aware of the potential national security threat posed by the Chinese telecommunications and tech equipment companies Huawei and ZTE. The intelligence community has long warned that firms were too close to the Chinese government and that they could use their products to monitor communications on behalf of Beijing.— Katie Benner3:35 P.M.Under questioning by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, Mr. Barr pledged to obey and uphold a 2015 law that restricts interrogators to the techniques listed in the Army Field Manual.“That was an important change because I think it gave clarity to the law and I will support that,” Mr. Barr said.Ms. Feinstein, who chaired the Senate Intelligence Committee when it produced a lengthy investigative report about the C.I.A.’s torture program under the Bush administration, noted that it had relied upon secret memos by the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel blessing techniques like extended sleep deprivation and the suffocation tactic known as waterboarding despite anti-torture laws.She also noted that in 2005, Mr. Barr had defended President Bush’s purported legal right to withhold Geneva Convention protections from terrorism detainees and to submit them to coercive interrogation, including “inflicting pain, discomfort and other things to make people talk” so long as it does not involve “the gratuitous barbarity involved in torture.”Pressed by Ms. Feinstein about whether waterboarding counted as torture, Mr. Barr said he did not know if it counted as such under the law in 2005, but that because of the newer law, “right now it’s prohibited, so, you know, the law has definitively dealt with that.”— Charlie Savage3:22 P.M.Their tones were starkly different, but a coalition of liberal and conservative senators who teamed up last year to push into law major revisions to federal sentencing and prison laws pressed to make sure Mr. Barr understood that times had changed since he was last in office.“During your previous tenure as attorney general, you literally wrote the book on mass incarceration or wrote this report,” said Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, referencing a 1992 Justice Department memorandum, “The Case for More Incarceration.” Mr. Booker urged Mr. Barr to say that the spike in incarceration caused by those policies had disproportionately affected black Americans.Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, sought assurances that Mr. Barr that he would implement the new bill, which lowers mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent drug offenders, promotes anti-recidivism programs, and expands early release.The short answer was yes, but Mr. Barr bristled at the suggestion he was hostile to the bill. He said he viewed tough-on-crime policies of the 1980s and 1990s, when he was last in office, as responsible for the ensuing drop in violent crime.“I don’t think comparing the policies that were in effect in 1992 to the situation now is really fair,” he told Mr. Grassley. He added, “I think the time was right to take stock and make changes to our penal system based on our current experience.”— Nicholas Fandos2:44 p.m.Democratic senators wanted other assurances of noninterference, too, particularly for regular federal prosecutors who be separately investigating Mr. Trump or building cases that could be damaging to his interests. Here, Mr. Barr drew a distinction between the special counsel’s investigation, which is governed by special rules, and matters considered through the department’s normal channels.“I have the responsibility to use my judgment and discretion that are inherent in the office of attorney general to supervise,” he said, referring to cases brought through the usual order. To let individual U.S. attorney’s work without supervision or make assurances about individual investigations would be an abdication of that responsibility, he said.Mr. Barr said that he would not stand for efforts to interfere or scuttle investigations within the department for political reasons, but offered a caveat about presidential power.“I would not stand by and allow, you know, an investigation to be stopped if I thought it was a lawful investigation,” he said. “I wouldn’t stand by for that, but the president is free to fire his, you know, officials that he’s appointed.”Democrats had at least one high-profile case in mind. Prosecutors in the Southern District of New York have built a case that has implicated Mr. Trump in a scheme to pay hush money to two women during the 2016 campaign to stop them from speaking publicly about affairs they said they had with him.“The point is,” Mr. Barr said, “if someone tried to stop a bona fide, lawful investigation to cover up wrongdoing, I would resign.”— Nicholas Fandos1:19 P.M.Asked whether he would consider jailing journalists “for doing their jobs,” Mr. Barr paused before explaining that he could conceive of situations “as a last resort” where a news organization or journalist needs to be held accountable for “putting out stuff that they know will harm the country.”The Justice Department has cracked down in recent years on government employees who share classified information with reporters. Under former President Barack Obama, the Justice Department prosecuted more leaks than all previous administrations combined. Reporters are loathe to reveal sources, and some have been jailed for refusing a judge’s orders to do so.Mr. Barr’s hesitation may have been because of the Justice Department’s long pursuit of the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange over the site’s publication of troves of secret government papers. Obama-era lawyers debated whether to charge him but held off because they could never decide on a clear answer to the question of how his work differed from that of traditional news organizations.But prosecutors have secretly charged him, they mistakenly revealed last year, raising questions of whether they set aside concerns about setting a precedent that would chill press freedoms because of WikiLeaks’ release of stolen Democratic emails that Russian intelligence operatives hacked during the 2016 election. — Katie BennerFrom the archives1 P.M.Mr. Barr said he agrees with the president about the need to change the nation’s immigration laws, including his demand for a border wall that has prompted the nation’s longest government shutdown.“We need money right now for border security — including barriers and walls and slats and other things,” Mr. Barr said, “anything that makes sense in different areas of the border.”Tuesday marked the 25th day of the partial government shutdown with little indication that Mr. Trump and congressional Democrats were any closer to a compromise on funding for a border wall.Mr. Barr said he would like to see an agreement between lawmakers and the president that recognizes the need for border security, “and part of that common-sense matter needs barriers.”— Eileen Sullivan11:45 A.M.Asked what he would do if confronted with a situation where he might have to resign, Mr. Barr cited his age and his previous stint as attorney general to say he will be unshackled from politics to make the right decision, regardless of whether it is politically prudent for his career or for the president.“It might give me pause if I was 45 or 50 years old, but it doesn’t give me pause right now,” said Mr. Barr, 68.He added: “I will not be bullied into doing anything I think is wrong by anybody whether it be editorial boards or Congress or the president. I’m going to do what I think is right.”— Michael S. Schmidt11:20 A.M.Mr. Barr has long advanced an unusually expansive view of executive authority. He has portrayed the president, not the attorney general, as the nation’s top law-enforcement official, and suggested that Congress cannot bar a president from using his executive powers — like to pardon someone or “start or stop a law enforcement proceeding” — in a corrupt way.This has raised the question of whether his permissive theories would unleash Mr. Trump, who is not known for his self-restraint. But in several ways on Tuesday, Mr. Barr appeared to walk back or qualify some of his earlier writings, putting greater emphasis on the Justice Department’s independence and legal limits on the presidency.For example, Mr. Barr said that if a president directed the Justice Department to close an investigation to protect himself or his family, that would violate the Constitution. And asked by Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, whether a president could pardon someone in exchange for a promise not to incriminate him, Mr. Barr said “that would be a crime.”— Charlie Savage10:38 A.M.Mr. Barr defended as “entirely proper” his decision to write an unsolicited, lengthy memo to the Trump administration legal team in June arguing that Mr. Mueller should not be permitted to investigate the president for violating criminal obstruction-of-justice laws based on how he chose to exercise his constitutional powers, like to fire a subordinate or order an investigation closed.Mr. Barr stressed that he was “in the dark” about what Mr. Mueller’s obstruction theory was, and said that he was merely speculating. He emphasized that his concern was the “ramifications down the road” of establishing such a rule.“One theory in particular that appeared to be under consideration under a specific statute concerned me because I thought it would involve stretching the statute beyond what was intended and would do it in a way that would have serious adverse consequences for all agencies that are involved in the administration of justice, especially the Department of Justice,” he said. “And I thought it would have a chilling effect going forward over time.”— Charlie Savage10:12 A.M.Ms. Feinstein read excerpts from Mr. Barr’s writings on a president’s purported power to control all law-enforcement activity and said she intended to press him on whether he would resist political interference from Mr. Trump, noting his calls for new criminal inquiries into Democrats like Hillary Clinton.“It’s important that the next attorney general be able to strongly resist pressure, whether from the administration or Congress to conduct investigations for political purposes,” she said. “You must have the integrity, the strength and the fortitude to tell the president ‘no,’ regardless of the consequences.”In his opening statement, Mr. Barr appeared to embrace that principle.“The attorney general must ensure that the administration of justice, the enforcement of the law, is above and away from politics,” he said. “Nothing could be more destructive of our system of government, of the rule of law, or the Department of Justice as an institution than any toleration of political interference with the enforcement of the law.”— Charlie Savage10:02 A.M.Mr. Barr briefly spoke of his commitment to public service and the Justice Department. He noted that most of his children are government lawyers, including one in a top position at the Justice Department. One of his three daughters coordinates the department’s response to the opioid crisis, and a son-in-law also works in the department’s national security division.“Somebody needs to make money in the family,” joked Mr. Graham.— Katie BennerWhen Mr. Barr was nominated to serve as attorney general the first time in 1991, the Democratic Senate unanimously confirmed him by voice vote. He should not expect such a smooth ride this time around, but with Republicans in control of the chamber by a 53-to-47 majority, his confirmation appears to be on track.Two wild cards could scramble the usual partisan divide. A handful of moderate Republicans facing re-election fights in 2020 or simply skeptical of Mr. Trump’s intentions could theoretically swing against Mr. Barr if he fails to convince them that he would stand up for the special counsel. If these senators — Cory Gardner of Colorado, Susan Collins of Maine, Thom Tillis of North Carolina, Mitt Romney of Utah and others — banded together with a united Democratic caucus, they could kill the confirmation.But Democrats may also be motivated to quickly move Mr. Barr through confirmation. They have been highly critical of the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, a Trump loyalist whom they view as a direct threat to Mr. Mueller, and want him out of office as quickly as possible. If they view Mr. Barr as sincere in his public assurances about the investigation, it is a swap many Democrats might eagerly make.— Nicholas FandosAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sam RobertsEdward A. Morrison, a former New York deputy mayor whose avowal that John Lennon was a valuable cultural asset to the city helped Lennon avoid deportation in the 1970s, died on Saturday in Ocala, Fla. He was 85.His son Andrew said the cause was congestive heart failure.Mr. Morrison, a lawyer, was among the advisers to Lennon and his wife, the artist and singer Yoko Ono, when Lennon’s residency in the United States was challenged by the Nixon administration in 1972.He was also a friend of the couple’s; Lennon and Ms. Ono had attended Mr. Morrison’s swearing-in as deputy mayor in 1972.Lennon had been living with Ms. Ono in New York for about a year when his immigration troubles began. They stemmed from his pleading guilty to a misdemeanor charge of cannabis possession in London in 1968. The White House contended that American immigration law barred the admission of convicted drug offenders. In 1973, the United States issued a deportation order.Leon Wildes, Lennon’s lawyer, discovered that despite the government’s claim, deportation was not automatic. Immigration officials, he said, could exercise prosecutorial discretion on the basis of humanitarian, political and other criteria.(Moreover, it turned out that the drug cited in the 1968 case was not marijuana but hashish, which was not covered by the American immigration law.)By the early 1970s, Lennon was widely known not just for his music as a former member of the Beatles but also for his antiwar activism, and F.B.I. files later revealed that the White House had wanted to deport him largely because of his potential to sway newly enfranchised voters against President Richard M. Nixon and the Vietnam War. (The federal voting age had been lowered from 21 to 18 in 1971.)Mr. Wildes’s son Michael said in a phone interview on Tuesday that Mr. Morrison had provided valuable help “in keeping the case in the public eye and building up public sentiment against the deportation efforts.”Mr. Morrison’s boss, Mayor John V. Lindsay, also testified on Lennon’s behalf, as did a host of artists, musicians and writers, including Joan Baez, Bob Dylan, John Updike, Joyce Carol Oates, Jasper Johns, Leonard Bernstein and Joseph Heller — all arguing, like Mr. Morrison, that Lennon was a valuable cultural asset to the United States.The campaign proved successful. After Nixon’s resignation in 1974, the government relented, saying it no longer objected to Mr. Lennon’s presence in the United States. He was granted a green card in 1976 but was murdered, in 1980, before he could apply for citizenship.Mr. Morrison was Lindsay’s liaison to the City Council and the Board of Estimate, the legislative body that voted on city contracts, franchises and zoning. (It was declared unconstitutional in 1989.)In 1974, Mr. Morrison, a vice chairman of the New York State Liberal Party, was nominated for governor by the party. He was, however, just a stand-in: The Liberals endorsed Hugh L. Carey after Mr. Carey won the Democratic nomination.Later, as chairman of the state Crime Victims Compensation Board, Mr. Morrison implemented legislation that took the profits from books and other income earned by convicted criminals and diverted the proceeds to their victims.Edward Allen Morrison was born on April 9, 1933, in Brooklyn to Samuel and Sadie (Lansberg) Morrison. His father was a dentist and his mother an elementary-school teacher. The younger Mr. Morrison attended Stuyvesant High School, Brooklyn College and Columbia Law School.After leaving government, he practiced law in New York City and in the Hudson Valley before moving to Florida six years ago.He married Elaine Morrison (who was no relation, but friends had introduced them because they had the same surname). She survives him, along with their sons, Dean, Russell, Andrew and William, and eight grandchildren.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Democratic electorate has shifted sharply to the left, taking many politicians along with it — willingly and unwillingly. By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.The most active wing of the Democratic Party — the roughly 20 percent of the party’s electorate that votes in primaries and wields disproportionate influence over which issues get prioritized — has moved decisively to the left. With all the attention that is being paid to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib and other new progressive voices in Congress, this may not seem like news, but we are only just beginning to realize the full significance of this shift.The Primaries Project at the Brookings Institution conducted extensive polling of 7,198 Democratic voters in the 2018 primaries and found that 60.4 percent described themselves as liberal, including 26.4 percent who said they were “very liberal.”In its most recent analysis, Gallup found that from 1994 to 2018, the percentage of all Democrats who call themselves liberal more than doubled from 25 percent to 51 percent.Over the same period, the percentage of Democratic moderates and conservatives fell steadily, with the share of moderates dropping from 48 to 34 percent, and of conservatives dropping from 25 to 13 percent. These trends began to accelerate during the administration of George W. Bush and have continued unabated during the Obama and Trump presidencies.In recent years, the internal pressures to hew to the left, driven largely by Democratic primary voters, have steadily gained strength.They include the determination to oppose all things Trump, especially his anti-immigrant policies, his racism and his religious bigotry; the rise of outspoken, well-educated liberals, many of them young; the #MeToo movement and Trump’s disrespect for women; the Occupy movement; the mobilization of anti-establishment voters by Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primaries; and the consistent exodus of more conservative white voters from the Democratic Party, supplanted by more politically liberal minority voters.The anti-establishment faction contributed significantly to the large turnout increases in Democratic primaries last year. Pew found that from 2014 to 2018, turnout in House primaries rose from 13.7 to 19.6 percent of all registered Democrats, in Senate primaries from 16.6 to 22.2 percent and in governor primaries from 17.1 to 24.5 percent.Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at Brookings, agrees with the analysis that core voters and activist leaders within the party are “moving leftward”:Medicare for All, free college, a universal jobs guarantee, a $15 minimum wage, an expansion of the EITC to the entire bottom half, workers on boards of directors, ending ICE, raising marginal tax rates to 70 percent are all big, bold leftist ideas and appear to be gaining currency.These “big, bold leftist ideas” pose a strategic problem for liberals and the Democratic Party, Sawhill, who published “The Forgotten Americans: An Economic Agenda for a Divided Nation” last year, wrote in an email:In my view, it’s a trade-off between exciting the base thereby insuring higher turnout vs. broadening the base to include independents and Republicans that don’t like Trump.Sawhill argues that if the goal of Democrats is victory, as opposed to ideological purity, they must focus on general election swing voters who are not die-hard Democrats.One key Democratic target, Sawhill observes, is the “well-educated, suburban women, many of them Republican, who voted for Democrats in the midterms.” Once Trump is gone, she continued, “they could easily return to their natural home in the Republican Party.”“Over the longer-term,” Sawhill continued,as millennials and minorities become an ever-larger proportion of the party, it will have a natural constituency that supports a new and bolder agenda, but the concentration of those voters in urban areas that are underrepresented in our electoral system will be a continuing drag on the party’s prospects.The extensive support among prospective Democratic presidential candidates for Medicare for All, government-guaranteed jobs and a higher minimum wage reflects the widespread desire in the electorate for greater protection from the vicissitudes of market capitalism — in response to “increasingly incomplete risk protection in an era of dramatic social change,” as the political scientist Jacob Hacker put it in “Privatizing Risk without Privatizing the Welfare State: The Hidden Politics of Social Policy Retrenchment in the United States.” Support for such protections is showing signs of becoming a litmus test for candidates running in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries.Polling by the Pew Research Center shows sharp movement in a progressive direction on key issues among many Democrats.Take liberalized attitudes on immigration as an example. From 2008 to 2018, the percentage of Democrats who said the government should create “a way for immigrants already here illegally to become citizens if the meet certain requirements” grew from 29 to 51 percent, while the share who said “there should be better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws” fell from 21 to 5 percent.Similarly, the percentage of Democrats who agreed with the statement that “racial discrimination is the main reason many blacks can’t get ahead these days” rose from 28 to 64 percent from 2010 to 2017.Paul Starr, a sociology professor at Princeton, warns against putting too much stock in the ascendance of progressive Democrats. In an essay in the American Prospect, Starr argues that there were “two distinct developments” in the 2018 elections:While progressives have gained ground in long-held Democratic areas, more centrist candidates have won the more competitive districts. This second development will limit how far to the left the party can go. The more the party expands into the suburbs, the more dependent it will be on those relatively centrist votes — and that dependence will become a constraint on the policies that Democrats are able to agree on.In addition, while acknowledging the rise of the progressive wing, Starr pointed out that a separate December 2018 Gallup survey found that 54 percent of Democratic voters would prefer their party to become “more moderate,” while 41 percent said they would like the party to become “more liberal.”Along similarly cautionary lines, David Graham wrote in the Atlantic last November:There’s clear leftward movement among Democratic voters on a range of issues, and there are more progressive candidates running than ever. But this doesn’t amount, at least yet, to the socialist groundswell that advocates pine for and critics fear. The actual policy positions, and number of leftist officeholders, will remain limited — at least for now. What happens in 2020 could be more telling.Graham’s conclusion:The Democratic Party is moving left, but it might not be clear quite how far left for two or even six years. The revolution is coming more slowly than its champions hope and its critics fear.Matt Grossmann, a political scientist at Michigan State, noted in an email that the leftwardmovement is across the board on policy, ideological identification, and values, but remains furthest left on specific policy. The public movement seems to be strongest on race and gender issues as well as any proposal tied to Trump.Women, according to Grossmann, “are becoming a bigger part of the Democratic electorate and more supportive of women primary candidates.”The 2018 primary elections revealed the deepening strength of an anti-establishment insurgent faction, largely young, white and minority urban voters who turned out in droves in Democratic primaries from Omaha to Tallahassee and from the Bronx to Boston.Michael Capuano, a former mayor of Somerville, Mass. and a ten-term member of the House, learned the hard way how much the Democratic electorate has changed. As mayor in the 1990s, Capuano presided over the gentrification of the once scruffy, working class town. Initially, the city was grateful.When Capuano first won election to Congress in 1998, he owed his victory in the 10-candidate Democratic primary to his hometown. He carried Somerville with 7,852 votes, more than the total vote for all nine opponents, 6,253, while losing to other candidates in Boston, Belmont, Cambridge, Chelsea and Watertown.The impact of gentrification is striking.By 2017, 61.2 percent of Somerville’s residents 25 or older had at least a bachelor’s degree, compared with 30.9 percent nationwide. The median household income was $84,722, compared with $57,652 nationally.Somerville had moved from downscale to upscale, not to the level of Brattle Street in Cambridge or Boston’s Beacon Hill, but still many steps up the ladder.In the process, Somerville left Capuano, a white working class Democrat in the mold of Tip O’Neill, behind.In 2018, twenty years after first winning his House seat, Capuano could no longer count on Somerville. Despite his deep roots — his father had been mayor before him — the vote there was a wash. Capuano received 8,423 to 8,286 for his opponent, Ayanna Pressley, an African-American Boston city councilwomen.Pressley swept Cambridge and Boston to crush Capuano, 60,046 to 42,430 districtwide.The same pattern emerged in the widely publicized defeat of Joe Crowley, another 10-term incumbent, by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in the Democratic primary in a House district that straddles the Bronx and Queens.Steven Romalewski, who runs the mapping service at the CUNY Center for Urban Research, wrote me by email that “Ocasio-Cortez did best in areas such as Astoria/Steinway and Sunnyside, which happen to be more white than other parts of the district,” a point he elaborated upon in a story quoting him posted on The Intercept:You can also see that most of her votes, the strongest vote support, came from areas like Astoria in Queens and Sunnyside in Queens and parts of Jackson Heights that, number one, were not predominantly Hispanic, so they’re a more mixed population, and are areas where — this is kind of a term of art — are in the process of being gentrified, where newer people are moving in,Grace Segers, writing in July on the City & State website, noted that Crowley fell victim to gentrification and that force may upend expectations in Democratic primaries throughout Manhattan and western Brooklyn and Queens. And the rise of younger voters who are newer to their districts and unattached to incumbents could power insurgent candidates throughout New York City.David Freedlander, writing in Politico Magazine, captured the unanticipated voting patterns that gave rise to Crowley’s defeat. “Ocasio-Cortez’s best precincts,” Freedlander wrote, were highly educated, whiter and richer than the district as a whole. In those neighborhoods, Ocasio-Cortez clobbered Crowley by 70 percent or more.Conversely, Crowley did best in “the working-class African-American enclave of LeFrak City, where he got more than 60 percent of the vote.” In fact, Crowleypulled some of his best numbers in Ocasio-Cortez’s heavily Latino and African-American neighborhood of Parkchester, in the Bronx — beating her by more than 25 points on her home turf.Jerry Skurnik, a New York political consultant, describes gentrifying communities outside Manhattan as experiencing an influx of “people who really want to live in Greenwich Village but can’t afford to.”This younger, well-educated constituency — predominately but not exclusively white — is hostile to cautious establishment Democrats, especially to older white men, and they are determined to engineer an intraparty cultural and ideological insurgency.The emergence in force in 2018 of these insurgent Democrats grows in part out of the Sanders presidential campaign. Sanders mobilized millions of voters, many of whom did not want the Democrats to nominate a candidate with deep ties to party regulars and to the major donor community.Maps of primary voting patterns in 2016 and 2018 produced by CUNY’s Graduate School of Journalism and the Center for Urban Research show that Sanders beat Clinton in just a handful of New York City neighborhoods. Many of those Sanders neighborhoods are in Ocasio-Cortez’s district and they are the communities that provided her biggest margins of victory.Sanders also carried Somerville in 2016, 12,247 to 9,016, where support for Capuano imploded two years later.If the turnout patterns in the Ocasio-Cortez and Pressley districts are even modestly predictive, the Democratic Party may be changing in significant ways.Tom Kiley, who conducted polling for Capuano, described in an email the shifting makeup of the Democratic electorate in the Seventh District of Massachusetts:Mike did best among older, white, non-college educated Democrats who, for the most part, still described themselves as liberals or moderate liberals.Pressley’s base, Kiley wrote, was overwhelmingly made up of liberal, college-educated, white voters, especially those under 45 who did not have a history of voting in off-year elections. We were expecting what we considered a robust turnout of 75,000 for the day after Labor Day. In fact it ballooned to over 100,000, largely on the strength of this younger white cohort.While the Boston-Cambridge-Somerville district is far more liberal than the national average, Kiley argued that trends there are likely to be replicated in many regions of the country. “These new voters will have a major impact in the Democratic nomination process in many states,” he wrote:The desire for change in general is huge, and Trump is a powerful accelerant. I have to believe these new voters aren’t going to just retreat after electing new members of Congress; they’ll come out in droves in the primaries next year. And they’ll be voting for change.While primary voters are normally predominately committed partisans with a long history of voting, in the Pressley-Capuano contest more than half of the voters had no record of previous primary voting (24 percent) or were recorded as voting in only one previous primary (29 percent).“If the Pressley campaign was banking on turnout, they certainly cashed in,” wrote Maeve Duggan, research director at the MassINC Polling Group, in an article posted on the website of WBUR, Boston’s NPR news station.“Some 106,556 voters in the 7th Congressional District cast ballots in the 2018 Democratic primary, compared with just 61,725 in 2014,” she continued, “and among the district’s 2018 primary voters, only 37 percent had also voted” in 2014 primaries, according to voter file analysis.Duggan and the MassINC Polling Group analyzed the demographics of the first-time voters and found:They were predominantly women and young people: Fifty-five percent were women, and 66 percent were age 44 or younger (including 34 percent who were 18 to 29 years old).The surge of young voters had a powerful impact, increasingthe overall proportion of voters 44 or younger from 25 percent in 2014 to 42 percent in 2018. Combining age and gender, women ages 18 to 29 made up the largest group of new voters, at 20 percent.The new voters, she found, “were more likely to be Asian or Hispanic, compared with the 7th’s repeat voters,” but, she noted, the state’s only majority-minority congressional district “still has a predominantly white voting base.”A July 2018 pre-election survey of voters in the Capuano-Pressley district conducted by WBUR-MassINC makes clear the importance of growing political participation among young voters. The survey found striking generational differences not only on the candidates but on issues.18-to-29-year-olds favored Pressley over Capuano 41-23 while those over 60 backed Capuano 59-28. Asked if they would be more or less likely to support a candidate who “made abolishing ICE a major priority,” young voters said “more likely” by 48-18 while older voters said it would make them “less likely” by 25-23.Both young and old supported a national health care program, but the margin of support versus oppose was larger (90-2) among young voters than among their elders (71-16).In a postelection analysis of the Ocasio-Cortez-Crowley contest, the Global Strategy Group found:White gentrified liberal areas went big for AOC and surged. Younger, white liberal areas contributed heavily to the margin of Ocasio-Cortez’s victory. Ocasio-Cortez won Hispanics.At the same time, according to their analysis, voters Crowley thought he could depend upon — “expected people, especially older primary voters — did not show up.”Joshua M. Zeitz, a historian whose most recent book is “Building the Great Society: Inside Lyndon Johnson’s White House,” argues that contemporary Democratic progressives are not insurgents, but in full accord with party tradition.In an essay in Politico, “Democrats Aren’t Moving Left. They’re Returning to Their Roots,” Zeitz argued thatWhat pundits today decry as a radical turn in Democratic policy and politics actually finds its antecedents in 1944. With the country fully mobilized for war, President Franklin Roosevelt called for “a second Bill of Rights … an economic Bill of Rights” that would entitle all Americans to a “useful and remunerative job,” “the right to earn enough to provide adequate food and clothing and recreation,” the “right … to a decent home,” “the right to adequate medical care” and the “right to a good education.”Sawhill looks at the ideological shifts in the Democratic electorate less from a historical perspective and more as a response to contemporary economic and social dislocation. Among both conservatives and liberals, Sawhill argued, there is “an intellectual awakening about the flaws of modern capitalism” — a recognition of the failings of “neoliberalism, the idea that a market economy with a few light guardrails is the best way to organize a society.” This intellectual climate may result in greater receptivity among voters to more radical proposals.The willingness of voters to support Democrats who are pushing initiatives like these will depend in large part, however, on the ability of candidates to assure the general electorate that their agenda is beneficial to all and not just to favored liberal constituencies. This will be difficult, given the fact that what is being proposed is a much larger role for government, and that those who are most in need of government support are in the bottom half of the income distribution and disproportionately minority — in a country with a long racist history. As a presidential candidate, Barack Obama was able to overcome this barrier twice, but the challenge should not be minimized.I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Peter BakerWASHINGTON — For the last month, President Trump’s public schedule has mostly been a sparse document. The one issued for Tuesday, for instance, listed only his daily intelligence briefing and lunch with the vice president. No new policy announcements. No new cabinet appointments.As the partial government shutdown enters its 33rd day, Democrats accuse Mr. Trump of hostage-taking tactics, but among the hostages has been his own presidency. Other than his single-minded pursuit of a border wall, Mr. Trump has all but put on hold advancing the rest of his agenda. It has become, as one administration official put it, a one-issue White House.“There are important things that aren’t being addressed,” said William A. Galston, who served as a domestic policy aide to President Bill Clinton. But the wall has become the singular issue for Mr. Trump because he has become convinced that his presidency is on the line. “It’s easy to come up with a list of things on the domestic front that he should be worrying about,” Mr. Galston said, “but it’s just as easy to understand why he’s not.”Senate leaders briefly raised hopes of a possible cease-fire in the shutdown on Tuesday by agreeing to hold votes on a pair of measures this week, but it appeared unlikely that either would draw the 60 votes necessary. Mr. Trump is eager to deliver his State of the Union address in the House chamber next week as originally scheduled, the most prominent platform a president has to set the terms for the coming year. But Speaker Nancy Pelosi has suggested it might be postponed or canceled if government agencies remain closed.White House officials said they were operating on the assumption that the president would still give the speech at the Capitol next Tuesday unless expressly disinvited, but if that were to happen, they had alternative options, like a televised speech delivered in the East Room of the White House. The address is being written to unveil a variety of policies, not just discuss the border dispute, which is one reason it is so important to Mr. Trump.The standoff has already forced Mr. Trump to cancel a trip to Europe to meet with global business leaders in Davos, Switzerland, at a time when the world economy faces a possible slowdown. The president has made no evident progress in filling a series of senior vacancies nor has he produced the tax-cutting plan he promised last year. He has done nothing in weeks to publicly promote priorities like fighting opioid abuse or bolstering the economy.“There is this frustration that the shutdown is interfering with the ability of Republicans — I assume Democrats feel the same way — to advance the agenda,” said Lanhee J. Chen, who was chief policy adviser to Mitt Romney’s Republican presidential campaign in 2012 and is now at Stanford University.And yet, given the new era of divided government, he added, “I’m not sure how quickly any agenda would be moving even if the government were open. That’s a sad testament about where we are as a country.”Many of Mr. Trump’s agency leaders and senior advisers, of course, are still at work. His trade negotiators are focused on brokering an agreement to ease the tariff war with China, and Mr. Trump himself met with a visiting official from North Korea to pave the way for a second summit meeting with its leader, Kim Jong-un, as early as next month.But at a time when a president is typically finishing a collection of policies in connection with the State of the Union and previewing them to build public support, some of Mr. Trump’s aides acknowledge that the president and his senior team have been almost entirely focused on the border dispute.Indeed, administration officials said the situation had the unintended benefit of making it easier for Mick Mulvaney, the newly installed acting White House chief of staff, to settle into his job because he did not have as many issues to juggle.The president, who made no public appearances on Tuesday, has kept his primary attention on the fight for the border wall for weeks, making only two unrelated out-of-town trips since the shutdown began, an unannounced stop in Iraq to visit troops at Christmas time and a quick flight to Dover Air Force Base in Delaware last weekend to pay respects to the returning remains of four Americans killed in Syria. Even a day trip to New Orleans to address farmers turned into another public pitch for the wall.Still in his inbox are a slew of important vacancies to fill, including defense secretary, interior secretary and chief of staff. His attorney general, United Nations ambassador and Environmental Protection Agency chief are all serving in an acting capacity while waiting for Senate confirmation votes of his nominees. The White House on Tuesday sent 51 judicial nominations to the Senate, returning names that had gone unacted on last year.Mr. Trump expressed no urgency when asked by reporters recently about all the acting officials in the upper echelon of his administration. “I like acting,” he said. “It gives me more flexibility.”The number of press briefings in 2018 dropped far below the number held during previous presidencies.Left uncertain is how Mr. Trump may pursue other goals. He vowed before the midterm election to pass a middle-class tax cut in the new Congress but has said little about it since then. He also vowed to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement to pressure Congress to pass his newly negotiated replacement but has yet to do so.He has similarly talked about collaborating with Ms. Pelosi’s Democrats, who just took over the House, on possible bipartisan initiatives like rebuilding the nation’s roads, bridges and other infrastructure or bringing down the cost of prescription drugs. Neither of those ideas has come up lately and it is hard to see the current impasse establishing the sort of trust that might lead to across-the-aisle cooperation.Moreover, any bitterness or ill will that lingers once the current shutdown is resolved, assuming it is, may complicate future financial negotiations when the debt ceiling needs to be raised to keep the country from defaulting on its obligations and when the current fiscal year is over at the end of September.That may depend on how the border fight turns out. Some optimists see the potential for an eventual deal between Mr. Trump and Democrats that includes money for his wall in exchange for permanent revisions to immigration laws protecting many of those who have lived in the country illegally for many years.“Hopefully, in the end, we can turn an awful situation into a legislative accomplishment for both sides,” said Representative Josh Gottheimer, Democrat of New Jersey and a leader of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, who met recently with the president.Others are not so sure. Mr. Trump has been willing to subordinate the rest of his agenda to the border wall, analysts said, because it is so central to his political identity and his campaign for re-election next year.“The president believes that the wall represents his contract with America, certainly his contract with his supporters,” said Mr. Galston, who is now at the Brookings Institution. “He regards it, and I think probably accurately, as the issue that did more than any other to propel him to the White House.“That being the case,” he added, “this government shutdown is not over a peripheral issue that overshadows other issues. It is the most important issue, at least from the perspective of the president.”Annie Karni contributed reporting.Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — The reopening of the federal government signals the start of three weeks of intense negotiations over border security in an ideologically divided Congress that threaten to leave Republican and Democratic leaders right where they began: at risk of a government shutdown.The stopgap spending bill President Trump signed into law on Friday night gives leaders in both chambers until Feb. 15 to devise a bipartisan resolution to their impasse over the president’s demand for $5.7 billion for a border wall. But whatever they come up with is likely to face obstacles from resurgent liberals in the House and a more conservative Senate.And Mr. Trump is a wild card. The president will have the final word on any deal, and he has already vowed to shut down the government again, or invoke his emergency powers to build a wall, if Congress does not offer a solution he likes.Nodding to the tight deadline, he acknowledged the difficulties ahead. “Will not be easy to make a deal, both parties very dug in,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Saturday. “The case for National Security has been greatly enhanced by what has been happening at the Border & through dialogue. We will build the Wall!”Meanwhile, the clock is ticking.“I think everybody’s relieved that the government’s getting back open,” said Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma. “But I think everyone’s still a little tenuous because we’ve got a sword of Damocles hanging over us three weeks from now to see if we can get things worked out.”The shutdown, the longest on record, left 800,000 federal employees without pay for 35 days — and left lawmakers in both parties feeling scarred and jittery. Tensions were running especially high on Friday: Air traffic controllers called in sick, flights were delayed across the Northeast, work slowdowns at the I.R.S. threatened to postpone tax refunds and the F.B.I. director, furious that his agents were working without pay, lashed out.This coming week, negotiators from the House and the Senate, led by the top Democrats and Republicans on the Appropriations Committees, will begin meeting to hash out a plan to secure the southwestern border. The appropriators have a history of working in a bipartisan way, and there are some areas of agreement.Democrats and Republicans — including Mr. Trump — have both called for border security packages that would include money for new technologies to detect drugs and weapons, more personnel at the border, more immigration judges, infrastructure improvement at ports of entry and humanitarian assistance for migrants.Mr. Trump, for his part, has softened his messaging, conceding in a speech in the Rose Garden on Friday that “we do not need 2,000 miles of concrete wall from sea to shining sea — we never did.” That semantic evolution could provide a face-saving way forward for both the president and Democrats, who have previously supported bills that include money for border fencing, though not a wall.And Democrats have moved closer to Mr. Trump’s $5.7 billion price tag. Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 House Democrat, told reporters this past week that lawmakers in his party were prepared to spend that much on a border security package that would include what he called a “smart wall,” featuring drones, sensors and more Border Patrol agents.“This has become a shutdown over semantics,” said Steve Israel, a Democratic former congressman from New York, who ran the party’s campaign committee. “This has become Donald Trump’s shutdown over the definition of a wall, and Democrats have succeeded at redefining border security from bricks and mortar to investments in modern technology.”But the path ahead remains complicated. Mr. Trump is desperate to fulfill his 2016 campaign pledge for a “big, beautiful wall” along the southern border — a huge sticking point for Democrats, who see the president in a weakened position now that he has caved to their core demand of reopening the government first and negotiating border security later.Progressives especially are feeling emboldened and do not like the idea that Mr. Trump is once again tying the debate over border security to a threat to shut down the government.“I think it’s offensive, even to some of the centrists and moderates, that he links his program on immigration with the functioning of government,” said Representative Ro Khanna of California, a leader of the House Progressive Caucus. “The vast majority, not just the progressives, will say not a dime goes for the border wall. And that’s especially true because we just won this fight.”Even so, Mr. Trump may have already put forth the broad outlines of a deal, with his proposal to pair money for a barrier with protections for some undocumented immigrants. The Senate rejected that plan this past week. Still, if the protections were expansive enough, and included a path to citizenship for the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers, some centrist Democrats might be persuaded to sign on.But expanding the border security discussion to include changes to immigration law could open a Pandora’s box, giving conservative Republicans a window to pursue more far-reaching restrictions on legal immigration. One such Republican, Senator Marsha Blackburn, a freshman from Tennessee, said on Friday that she intended to continue pushing not only for a “border barrier,” but also for an end to the program that protects Dreamers and an end to family-based migration — a position that is anathema to Democrats.Much will depend on Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who solidified her position as a powerful leader of her caucus during the shutdown fight. On Friday, Ms. Pelosi ducked questions about whether she could accept any money for a physical barrier, insisting instead that Democrats want a border plan rooted in “evidence-based knowledge about how we best secure our border.”Ms. Pelosi has previously said that a wall would be “immoral” — an utterance that may have backed her into a corner, said Charlie Dent, a moderate Republican who retired from the House last year.“I hope she can walk that back, because if she meant what she said that walls are immoral, how can she allow a bill to come to the floor that might include some additional money for barriers?” Mr. Dent said. As to Mr. Trump, Mr. Dent said, “the question is: Can the president be a reliable negotiator?”For Democrats, that is the proverbial $64,000 question. Mr. Trump is extremely sensitive to criticism from the right, and is known to change his stance in response to commentary from conservative pundits. Already, one of them — Ann Coulter — has ridiculed the president as a “wimp” on Twitter over his decision to reopen the government without wall funding.During the shutdown Mr. Trump sent Vice President Mike Pence and the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, to the Capitol to negotiate with Democrats. But it quickly became clear that Mr. Pence and Mr. Mulvaney were not speaking for Mr. Trump.“I ask myself: Is this going to be a Trump negotiation, negotiated in good faith, or is he going to say one thing through his advisers and another when he hears from Rush Limbaugh and Ann Coulter?” asked Representative Nita M. Lowey of New York, who as chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee will be leading the talks.“I’m an appropriator; I’m used to making deals,” Ms. Lowey said, though she added, “I don’t know how this negotiation is going to go.”Some of the more pragmatic voices in Congress insist the two sides are not that far apart. Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, noted that last year Congress approved, and Mr. Trump signed into law, a bipartisan bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security that included $1.375 billion for new fencing along the border. Mr. Portman said Mr. Trump’s budget proposal for the 2019 fiscal year included money for just 234 miles of new fencing — hardly an enormous wall from one end of the country to the other.“Both the president and his Democratic critics have mischaracterized what the proposal is,” Mr. Portman said, adding that he sees reasons for optimism. He has been heartened by comments from Ms. Pelosi and House Democrats about the importance of border security and by remarks from moderate Democrats in the Senate who have said they are open to more fencing.And he said nobody — or at least nobody on Capitol Hill — was in the mood for another shutdown: “We’re sort of at the end of the rope now, right?”Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Christina Goldbaum[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The newly emboldened Democratic-led New York State Legislature waded into the battle over immigrants’ rights on Wednesday, approving a bill that for the first time offers undocumented students access to state financial aid and scholarships for higher education.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has confirmed he will sign the measure into law.The Dream Act is the latest in a wave of state-level protections for immigrants as blue state legislatures increasingly seek to act as a counterbalance to President Trump’s federal immigration policies. These issues are also expected to play a prominent role in the Democratic Party’s 2020 presidential primary, with candidates who are courting liberal activists supporting the state measures.After New York Democrats won control of the State Senate in November for the first time in a decade, protections for immigrants became a legislative priority. They included permitting undocumented residents to obtain state driver’s licenses and reducing maximum jail sentences for certain misdemeanors that could otherwise lead to deportation.“It took us almost a decade to get the Dream Act, and it’s going to take another five, 10, 20 years to undo the damage that Washington is causing our families,” said Assemblywoman Catalina Cruz of Queens, who was born in Colombia and came to New York as an undocumented child.Even as the bill gained passage, the New York Immigration Coalition and other advocates were pushing for lawmakers to “dream bigger” and address issues like expanded funding for immigrant legal services and health care for immigrants.All these measures, lawmakers say, could act as a bulwark against Republican efforts in Washington and the ongoing standoff over the nation’s southern border.“The election of Trump and the fact that he made immigration a central theme of his presidency has made immigration a more prominent issue at the state level,” said Muzaffar Chishti, the director of the Migration Policy Institute at the New York University School of Law. “In some ways, blue states are now competing with each other to provide a higher level of protection to immigrants.”The New York bill will affect an estimated 146,000 young people who were educated in New York public schools but have been ineligible to receive financial aid under federal and state law, according to analysis by the New York State Youth Leadership Council and N.Y.U. Law School’s Immigrant Rights Clinic.“These young undocumented immigrants will work, they will pay taxes, they will buy products, and the greater earning capacity they have the more taxes they will pay,” said Democratic State Sen. Luis Sepúlveda. “This is one piece of legislation where we must get beyond the anti-immigration fervor created by President Trump and see the benefits educating these young people has for our state.”But many Republicans say that the measure diverts funds away from legal residents and comes at the expense of taxpayers.“How am I supposed to tell families in my Senate district that adequate state aid to help afford college isn’t available for them, but it is available for others who are in this country illegally?” said Republican State Sen. James Seward.The move on financial aid for undocumented immigrants comes during a week in which the Legislature and Governor Cuomo continued to make headway on a list of liberal measures that had long been blocked while Republicans controlled the State Senate for most of the last decade.On Tuesday, Mr. Cuomo signed the Reproductive Health Act, to expand rights to abortion. New York’s abortion laws had not been updated since 1970, three years before Roe v. Wade. The measure moves abortion regulations from the state penal code to the health code, recognizing abortion as a public health issue rather than a crime from which the state had carved out exclusions.In passing the state Dream Act, New York joined California, Texas, New Mexico, Washington, Oregon and Minnesota, which have already passed similar legislation offering undocumented students access to state-funded financial aid; a dozen states have ensured undocumented immigrant residents can obtain driver’s licenses; and a handful have provided pathways for immigrants to secure professional and occupational licenses.Only three states have enacted provisions that proactively prohibit undocumented students from accessing in-state tuition rates, and two, Alabama and South Carolina, prohibit those students from even enrolling at a public postsecondary institution.The Dream Act’s passage reflected the Democratic Party’s turn to the left on immigration, an issue party leaders once handled gingerly out of fear of angering some white voters.But Mr. Trump’s incendiary language on race, the increasingly diverse nature of the Democratic voter base and the party’s success in multiethnic cities and suburbs have convinced many party leaders that they are both morally right and on safe political ground when they side with undocumented immigrants.The party’s 2020 presidential hopefuls — including some who once held more hawkish views on immigration, like Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York — are already moving to reassure liberal activists on the issue in an effort to protect themselves in the 2020 campaign.It is a strikingly different scenario than during the 2008 Democratic primary, when White House hopefuls wrestled with whether undocumented immigrants should be allowed to obtain driver’s licenses. Several candidates, including then-Senator Hillary Clinton of New York, were torn between pleasing their core voters and scaring off swing voters in a general election.The center of gravity has now shifted so that few Democratic presidential candidates would hesitate to embrace such measures as providing the undocumented drivers licenses or in-state tuition benefits. The only question now is how best to counter Mr. Trump’s hard-line immigration policies, and the debate has moved toward whether agencies like the Immigration and Customs Enforcement should exist at all.Democrats in the New York Legislature first introduced the Dream Act in 2013, but the legislation was narrowly defeated in the Senate. Since that time, Democrats have included it in New York state budget proposals, only to have it repeatedly negotiated out of the budget.“There is a backlog of progressive legislation that the new Democratic majority can finally prioritize,” said Democratic State Senator Jessica Ramos. “We might not have jurisdiction over immigration laws themselves, but there is still a lot we can do as a state to protect our diversity.”Though the state already allows all students who graduate from high school in New York to pay in-state tuition at the City University of New York and the State University of New York, the Dream Act extends state financial aid to all students who meet the Tuition Assistance Program requirements, opens 529 tuition savings accounts to all New York youth and establishes a commission to raise private funds for college scholarships to be offered to the children of immigrants.Still, the Republican minority that opposed the Dream Act argues that it creates a greater tax burden on already stressed middle-class taxpayers and puts the needs of undocumented immigrants above those of American-citizen students.“Middle-class families across New York continue to struggle with high tuition costs and oppressive taxes,” said Republican Assemblywoman Mary Beth Walsh. “As state representatives, it is our duty to ensure that our state government operates in the best interests of New York’s families” and not undocumented immigrants, she said.Until now, many young undocumented students could not afford to attend universities, despite aspiring to higher-education degrees; the Immigration Policy Center estimates that because of financial constrains, only 5 to 10 percent of the 4,500 undocumented students who graduate from New York high schools each year go on to pursue college degrees.“When I came here I found out how hard it would be to go to college as someone who is undocumented,” said Richard Salinas, an 18-year-old high school student in Queens who came to the United States four years ago. “I wouldn’t be able to get any help, and my mom can’t afford it and my dad can’t afford it.”“This changes everything for me,” Mr. Salinas said.Jesse McKinley and Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ali Winston[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]A 26-year-old man who the police said is a member of the violent MS-13 street gang was arrested Monday in connection with the brazen murder of a gang rival on a Queens subway platform the previous day.The killing was the first recorded murder on the subway in just over six months.Chief of Detectives Dermot Shea said the fatal shooting stemmed from a feud between rival Central American gangs in Queens.The victim, Abel Mosso, 20, had been identified by investigators as a member of the 18th Street gang, he said. The gunman is a known MS-13 gang member, Chief Shea said.Though Chief Shea did not name him, the man taken into custody was Ramiro Gutierrez, a law enforcement official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss an open case. Mr. Gutierrez and 11 others were charged in December by the Queens district attorney with conspiracy and attempted murder, as well as drug and weapons charges. He was freed on $2,500 bail awaiting trial.[Read more about MS-13 and President Trump’s use of crimes committed by the gang to argue for tighter immigration laws.]Mr. Gutierrez was being questioned by detectives on Monday evening. The district attorney had yet to file charges against him in connection with Mr. Mosso’s death.The shooting, which was caught on video by a bystander, occurred around 12:45 p.m. on Sunday. A fight broke out on a crowded 7 train bound for Manhattan and spilled out onto the platform at the 90th Street-Elmhurst Avenue station in Elmhurst.In the video footage, three men can be seen wrestling on the ground. One man gets to his feet and points what appears to be a small revolver at Mr. Mosso. Six shots ring out, as bystanders scream and run for cover.Mr. Mosso was shot several times in the face and died at the scene, the police said.Photographs of a man resembling Mr. Gutierrez, taken from security cameras near the subway station, were circulated by the police, and witnesses identified him to detectives. The gun was not found.The police were still seeking a second man filmed by security cameras as he fled the subway station wearing a gray sweatshirt and covering his face with a scarf.The rivalry between MS-13 and 18th Street goes back decades to their origins in Los Angeles. Both gangs later established criminal operations in Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala, among other places. They view each other as mortal enemies.[Read about the efforts of the United States to help El Salvador contain violence from gangs like MS-13.] MS-13 has been active in New York City and the surrounding region for over a decade, and remains a persistent threat despite several rounds of indictments by local and federal authorities. In December, five accused MS-13 members lured a 23-year-old man, Ian Cruz, to a bird sanctuary in Far Rockaway, Queens, where he was shot to death.The 18th Street gang is a newer arrival to New York, but has begun to target its longtime rivals, the police said. In May, the Queens district attorney indicted seven men accused of being 18th Street members in the murder of an MS-13 rival.An earlier version of this story, relying on information from the New York Police Department, referred incorrectly to how long it has been since the last recorded murder on the subway. The killing on Sunday was the first in just over six months, not a year. The error was repeated in a picture caption.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIf Trump betrays his most loyal supporters, he’ll deserve his fate.By Christopher BuskirkMr. Buskirk is editor and publisher of the journal American Greatness and a contributing opinion writer.President Trump lost a big one when he caved to Nancy Pelosi’s demand on the spending bill. Does that mean that “it’s all over for Trump,” as headlines have regularly blared? No. But it does mean that until he reasserts his authority, the locus of power is with the speaker and not with the president. Power unused is power lost. It’s a political truth that Democrats understand and Republicans pretend doesn’t exist.What is frustrating about this for supporters of border integrity is that the defeat was entirely self-inflicted. It didn’t have to happen at all. In fact, the president had the whip hand — if he had only recognized it and chosen to use it. Adrian Vermeule, a constitutional law professor at Harvard, noted on Twitter that “Trump’s advantage in various negotiations, for a time, was that he seemed crazy and capable of doing something genuinely rash if he didn’t get his way. Lately he (or his advisers) have become excessively rational, and they’re getting slaughtered.”During the shutdown the president could have asserted the authority to permanently lay off federal workers who have been furloughed for 30 days or more. That is the sort of transgressive threat that could have been used to his advantage. But he took it off the table when he signed the short-term spending bill. Since then, Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, hinted that Mr. Trump has a plan. The bill authorized enough spending to cover only three weeks, which gives the president and Congress time to negotiate a legislative solution covering non-essential federal spending and funding for border security. There are nine days remaining, and it’s unclear what happens next.Mr. Mulvaney told Fox News Sunday that “the president’s commitment is to defend the nation and he’ll do it either with or without Congress.” He might have added that it is not just a personal commitment but a constitutional responsibility. His oath of office requires that he “preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States,” which itself was instituted “to insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare” and so forth. A nation that does not enforce its own laws or defend its borders is doing none of those things.What most people heard in Mr. Mulvaney’s comment was that Mr. Trump would negotiate with Congress for funding but that if talks reached an impasse, he would sign the spending bill and then use his executive authority to order construction of a wall. He should use that authority if Congress fails. As John Eastman, a constitutional law professor at Chapman University, has explained, the law gives “the president the authority he needs to direct existing appropriations toward construction of a border security wall, once he has declared a national emergency.” The question is why Mr. Trump has not already done so.He made his case in a televised speech from the Oval Office a month ago and then virtually dropped the issue, except for a few tweets chiding Democrats for partying with lobbyists in Puerto Rico during the shutdown. Mr. Trump reiterated some of the jarring statistics in the State of the Union address: “In the last two years, our brave ICE officers made 266,000 arrests of criminal aliens, including those charged or convicted of 100,000 assaults, 30,000 sex crimes and 4,000 killings” and that “one in three women is sexually assaulted on the long journey north.”Our government’s failure to secure the border has precipitated a political, economic and moral crisis. The fact that we not only permit, but by our dereliction, actively encourage gangsters to traffic in human beings across our border is a disgrace. It must end.If Mr. Trump is planning to use executive authority to build the wall, he must continue to make the case the way he did in the State of the Union address. He must educate and persuade the American people, and that means he must continue to talk about it. If he does so, he will find that supporters of what the mathematician Eric Weinstein might call “xenophilic border security” — which is to say, well-disposed toward foreigners and foreign cultures, but wanting immigration laws enforced — will help him broaden and deepen the argument, but he must take the lead. The president would do well if he emphasized the degradation of human trafficking and the vast quantities of heroin, fentanyl and other drugs coming across the border that contribute to the more than 60,000 American deaths per year from opioid overdose. The State of the Union speech was a good start, but he needs to continue the drumbeat.He should also explain that border security is tied to the economic security of the middle and working class whose prosperity is inextricably linked to their asymmetric access to the labor market in the United States. Part of our social compact is that American citizens benefit first and most from our economy. Mass immigration, especially of the illegal variety, breaks that compact and should be understood as one of the most effective means by which big business interests maintain power over the middle and working class. Identity politics, while a particularly virulent ideology and one that motivates many liberal activists, is in fact a cover for class warfare in which incumbent economic and political winners use the poor to maintain control over the broad, dynamic middle class. The president’s critics often ask why the president waited until Democrats controlled the House to pick this fight. It’s a fair question. Part of the answer is electoral politics. But the real answer is that big-business Republicans like Paul Ryan blocked action in the last Congress. His successor, Kevin McCarthy, and the rest of the Republican leadership might be tempted to do the same thing. But they shouldn’t be. Both the security and the prosperity of the nation are at stake. Cheap labor undercuts the economic security of the American working class and is bad for the country. Border security is part of a solution.In the State of the Union address, Mr. Trump did a good job making the case for a wall and other security measures. But he didn’t indicate what he would do if Congress fails to approve funds, which leaves open the possibility that he will simply acquiesce once again to Speaker Pelosi. That would be political suicide. The president should realize that “Build the wall” is his “Read my lips, no new taxes.” Having already made the case for using executive authority, Mr. Trump can no longer complain that he was hamstrung by Congress. If he walks away from that promise, he will hobble his presidency and imperil his re-election — and that of many Republican congressmen and senators — more thoroughly than the best-laid plans of the most anti-Trump Democrats.Border security is the president’s signature issue. It is in many ways the defining issue of our day. He chose this moment for the fight when he refused to sign the spending bill without funding for the wall. At the time, Mr. Mulvaney said that Mr. Trump “will be judged by what happens at the end of this process, not what happened this week.” Now he has to win. As Mr. Trump said in the State of the Union address, “walls work and walls save lives.” A wall may also save him.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Christopher Buskirk is editor and publisher of the journal American Greatness, a co-author of “American Greatness: How Conservatism, Inc. Missed the 2016 Election and What the D.C. Establishment Needs to Learn,” and a contributing opinion writer.  @thechrisbuskirk AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAs secretary of homeland security, she signed the memorandum that created the popular program protecting ‘Dreamers.’ Now she’s fighting to save it.By Cristian FariasMr. Farias is a member of the editorial board.For all his efforts to undo the work of the prior administration, President Trump’s most striking failure has been his attempt to reverse the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program — a reprieve from deportation President Barack Obama issued nearly seven years ago to undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. In September 2017, Mr. Trump ordered an end to the program, known as DACA. The administration argued that it was an improper use of executive power that circumvented Congress and protected people who were breaking the law. But beginning in January of last year, a number of judges put a hold on DACA’s demise, finding the administration’s legal reasoning for ending it weak and in violation of the Administrative Procedure Act. Mr. Trump tried to offer a limited, statutory version of DACA as a bargaining chip during negotiations to end the government shutdown. But when the Supreme Court kept those holds in place while the appeals continued, its barter value was eliminatedAs secretary of homeland security under Mr. Obama, Janet Napolitano signed the memorandum that put DACA in place. In a legal twist, she’s now defending her handiwork in court, this time as president of the University of California, which has thousands of DACA students and is suing to overturn the DACA reversal. So she has a unique viewpoint of the controversy.This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.Q. When you signed the memorandum that created the DACA program in 2012, did you ever imagine it would take on a life of its own?A. No. (Laughs). I thought it would help a group of individuals who were undocumented in the country who in any circumstance would be low-enforcement priorities. But nonetheless, so long as they didn’t have any protection they were always having to look over their shoulder and, of course, they couldn’t get work authorization. And it just seemed to me that that was just wrong. And when Congress was unable to pass a Dream Act [which would write DACA-like protections into law and offer a path to citizenship], we began looking at what could the executive branch do. And we settled on the theory that the executive branch always has the authority to establish prosecution priorities. [The Department of] Justice doesn’t prosecute bad-check cases, they prosecute bank fraud cases. And it seems that in immigration enforcement the same theory would apply. That’s what we based the creation of DACA on.Q. This concept of “prosecutorial discretion” is the linchpin of the DACA program. And yet the Trump administration has said very little about prosecutorial discretion in these legal challenges. A. I think it’s because they proceed on the theory that DACA was illegal from its inception. And of course it’s not illegal. The administration, the Obama administration, had the authority to establish priorities for immigration enforcement. And DACA is simply a reflection of that. And I think having announced the rescission of DACA by saying it was illegal to have DACA, they led with their chin.Q. Was your decision to institute DACA controversial with D.H.S. leadership and the rank and file? Your memorandum was addressed to the different components at the Department of Homeland Security — a very law-and-order-type agency.A. No. The main component that has the responsibility for carrying out DACA is U.S.C.I.S. [the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]. Those are the folks that help people adjust their citizenship status, so this was in a way very consistent with their ethos. And with respect to ICE [Immigration and Customs Enforcement], if there was any resistance in the field, it never came to my attention.Q. President Obama called DACA a “temporary stopgap measure,” and instinctively, I imagine, you always understood a future administration could get rid of it. And yet here we are. To what would you attribute DACA’s endurance?A. One, its sheer numbers — close to 800,000-some-odd DACA recipients. And they’re attending colleges and universities. They’re…some of them have started their own small businesses. They’re homeowners. By now they’re parents. They’re well entrenched in the fabric of U.S. life. And when DACA was announced by the president, it got virtually no pushback. It was popular from the get-go. And the polling on it continues to show that it’s very popular. I think that has helped sustain it. If the administration were going to make a decision to rescind it, there was a right way and a wrong way to do that, and they did it the wrong way.Q. Nearly seven years later, the Trump administration believes, as do some states, that DACA is unconstitutional — an executive usurpation of power. AdvertisementSupported byVoters want more open borders, not a ‘smart wall.’ Democrats should listen.By Daniel DenvirMr. Denvir is the author of the forthcoming “All-American Nativism.”The last government shutdown ended because Democrats stood firm against President Trump’s border wall. But funding will soon run out again, talks between Democrats and Republicans are in crisis, and Mr. Trump remains committed: “The Wall will get built one way or the other!” he tweeted on Saturday.The Senate’s minority leader, Chuck Schumer, has made it clear that Mr. Trump won’t get his way: “Democrats are against the wall.” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has admirably enforced party discipline, has called the wall “immoral.”Yet at the same time, Ms. Pelosi has emphasized that “Democrats are committed to border security.” She has critiqued the wall on the narrow grounds that government should instead employ “evidence-based knowledge about how we best secure our border.” James Clyburn, the majority whip, fleshed out what that might look like: a “smart wall,” including more Border Patrol agents. This, too, is immoral.It’s also bad politics. Democrats should follow their voters, who increasingly want more open borders, and reframe the immigration debate by rejecting the very notion that the border needs more “security” and making it clear that the real problem is the denial of migrants’ rights. The time has come for the Democratic Party to push for concrete policies to make the border more open.There is plainly no need for more security on the border. Illegal entries to the United States (as measured by Border Patrol apprehensions, which the government has long used as a proxy) began to fall at the turn of the century, and have plummeted since 2006. They remain at historic lows today. Those who are coming to the country are often Central Americans fleeing violence that United States policy in the region helped foment.And when it comes to drugs — a favorite justification of Mr. Trump’s for his wall — evidence shows that more “border security” does not stop trafficking. From the 1970s on, every crackdown on a drug-smuggling route, whether it was heroin via the French Connection or cocaine through the Caribbean, has only led to new innovations in the trade that have empowered murderous Mexican cartels. Some scholars even argue that the rise of fentanyl can be traced to drug interdiction.Then why, if there isn’t truly a crisis on the border, do the Democrats continue to invoke the need for more “border security”? Largely because the conversation about the border and immigration has moved so far to the right over the past 30 years. As the linguist George Lakoff and Sam Ferguson, his student at the time, wrote more than a decade ago, the narrow framing of the “immigration” debate “has shaped its politics, defining what count as ‘problems’” and, as a result, “constrains the solutions needed to address that problem.” When the “problem” is defined as “illegal immigration,” it becomes about “the illegal act of crossing the border without papers,” and so “the logical response to the ‘wave’ of ‘illegal immigration’ becomes ‘border security.’”Since Bill Clinton’s presidency, the Border Patrol has grown from 4,100 agents in fiscal year 1992 to more than 19,000 today. The United States has built hundreds of miles of border fencing since the 2006 Secure Fence Act, which Barack Obama, Joe Biden and Hillary Clinton voted for. “Well, I voted for border security, and some of it was a fence,” Mrs. Clinton feebly said in 2016 when pressed about the 2006 vote that within a decade had become controversial.Democrats have for far too long let their political opponents define the terms of debate. Now they’re doing it again: House Democrats’ proposal heading into the negotiations with Republicans didn’t include funding for new physical barriers or additional Border Patrol agents, but it did offer significantly increased funding for “border security technology.”That’s not only bad for immigrants who, as a result of militarized borders are more likely to be kidnapped, violently assaulted and driven to cross via the lethal desert. It’s also bad for Democrats, who are handing ammunition to the nativist right at a time when Republicans are on the back foot and polls show that Democratic voters are moving decidedly leftward on immigration and the border.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]Voters used to overwhelmingly favor less immigration, but opinions have changed fast amid an immigrant rights movement that took off in 2006 and partisan polarization driven by aggressive enforcement. In 1994, just 32 percent of Democrats and Democratic-leaning Americans and 30 percent of Republicans agreed that immigrants strengthened the country, according to the Pew Research Center. But by 2016, the share of Democrats who said so had skyrocketed to 78 percent. In 2006, 37 percent of Democrats said that immigration levels should be decreased, while only 20 percent said that it should be increased. In 2018, 40 percent said that it should be increased, with just 16 percent calling for restriction. The same trend has held on border politics: In 2010, 47 percent of Democrats said that they equally prioritized legalizing undocumented immigrants and “better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws,” while just 29 percent prioritized legalization alone. By 2018, the number prioritizing legalization alone skyrocketed to 51 percent.Under President Trump, polarization has accelerated — and that’s a good thing. The vanishing bipartisan consensus orchestrated mammoth deportations and militarized the border in the quixotic hope of placating the nativist right and winning it over to supporting immigration reform. This strategy only inflamed the right’s paranoiac ravings and helped move the goal posts to new extremes. Which is why we find ourselves, in 2019, with the possibility of beginning a second government shutdown over the wall.So, what should the Democrats pursue instead? A break with a failed bipartisan consensus.Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley and Rashida Tlaib, all Democrats who are new to the House, have drafted a letter urging opposition to any deal that increases Department of Homeland Security funding in any form. That’s a good start.The border must be demilitarized, which would include demolishing the already-existing wall and dramatically downsizing the Border Patrol. Criminal sanctions on illegal entry and re-entry must be repealed. Opportunities for legal immigration, particularly from Mexico and Central America, must be expanded. The right to asylum must be honored. And citizenship for those who reside here must be a stand-alone cause, unencumbered by compromises that are not only distasteful but also politically ineffectual — and that today would provoke opposition from the nativist right and the grass-roots left. If Democrats stick to the center on immigration, they will find themselves fighting on two fronts. A fight against Republicans, with the left at their back, will be far easier to win — and a more noble victory.Simple realism dictates that no legislation to grant citizenship to the millions of undocumented Americans who deserve it will be passed until the Republicans are defeated. There’s no use trying to appease them. The bipartisan consensus supporting harsh immigration and border enforcement has fractured. Democratic elected officials need to catch up.Daniel Denvir (@danieldenvir) is a visiting fellow at the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs at Brown University and the author of the forthcoming “All-American Nativism.” He also hosts “The Dig,” a podcast from Jacobin magazine.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe 17-time collegiate national champion is now 25 and trying to figure out exactly who he is, and which country he will represent. By Matthew FuttermanFor years now, nearly a decade, Ed Cheserek’s path seemed obvious.A gifted teenage runner from Kenya, he had become a high school sensation at St. Benedict’s Prep in Newark, and then a star at the University of Oregon. A distance specialist, Cheserek could win races as long as 10,000 meters, or drop down and a run a sub-four-minute mile as needed. Cheserek won 17 national championships at Oregon, and when he graduated in 2017, he was the most decorated runner in N.C.A.A. history.His next move seemed clear. He would become an American citizen and represent the country in the biggest distance races and the biggest competitions the way other runners born in Africa — Bernard Lagat, Meb Keflezighi, Abdi Abdirahman — had done before him.It has not gone that way, not yet anyway. Instead, Cheserek, now 25 and back in New York this week to run in the Wanamaker Mile at the Millrose Games, is caught between two countries, trapped in a dispute involving immigration law, specialized work visas and the strange question of just how elite a runner he can claim to be. All this is unfolding as Cheserek evolves, trying to become the runner he has always wanted to be. Like plenty of other 20-somethings, he is learning that the path to what he wants is rarely as straight, or as simple, as it once seemed.He has moved to Flagstaff, Ariz., where he trains at elevation alongside some of the best distance runners in the world. It feels like home, he said, but his application for a green card has been rejected. Even receiving a temporary work visa, something that seemed as if it would be simple given his elite skills, has proved difficult. His lawyer uses stronger words to describe the process: “arbitrary and capricious,” though he said the difficulties went back to the years of the Obama presidency.“All I can do is just keep running until they decide what they decide,” Cheserek said in a telephone interview this week.Mostly, he has been very good at that. Cheserek ran the second-fastest indoor mile ever last year, finishing in 3 minutes 49.44 seconds at the David Hemery Valentine Invitational in Boston, but he is certain his greatest successes will come in the 5,000 and the 10,000. Just 5-foot-6 but with the chiseled physique of an undersize N.F.L. cornerback, Cheserek has a stride that, regardless of how fast he is running, makes him appear to float across any distance. Other than the slightest roll of his shoulders, he is a model of what looks like effortless efficiency. Then in an instant, he produces his trademark burst of speed that, throughout college at least, almost always left his competition far behind.“He’s a kind of freakish combination of strength and speed,” said Stephen Haas, who has been coaching Cheserek for the past year.It is also what sets him apart. Consider Keflezighi, for example, the winner of the New York City and Boston Marathons and a versatile athlete who like Cheserek won national championships in cross-country and at 5,000 and 10,000 meters in college. Keflezighi has never broken four minutes for the mile. Mo Farah, widely considered the world’s most versatile distance runner, has never run a mile faster than 3:56.Cheserek, though, has plenty of ground to make up in the longer distances before he can be considered world class in those events, where even his best times are 43 seconds off the world record in the 5,000 and more than two minutes behind the mark in the 10,000.To be fair, Cheserek has yet to have a complete and healthy outdoor season as a professional. Haas said he was certain an injury-free cycle of training that now included 100-mile-plus weeks and faster, longer runs as Cheserek headed into the spring and summer was going to produce significant breakthroughs at the distances Cheserek believes are his specialty.A glimpse of the future may have occurred at the Manchester Road Race in Connecticut on a frigid Thanksgiving morning last fall, when the runner known as King Cheserek at Oregon set a course record. He ran the 4.75-mile course in 21:16, beating Paul Chelimo, the 5,000-meter silver medalist at the 2016 Rio Olympics, and Andy Butchart, a British Olympian, by 30 seconds.So does he now prefer the roads to the track? “Roads, track, I don’t care,” Cheserek said. “Running is running.”Exactly what country he will represent is a much more complex question. Thomas Young, a Colorado immigration lawyer who has represented many athletes and now oversees Cheserek’s citizenship case, said the process had become much less predictable since 2015, before President Trump was elected.Cheserek has said since high school that his dream is to become an American citizen and to represent the United States in the Olympics. It should be noted that American distance running teams are usually easier to make than Kenyan ones, though Cheserek’s indoor mile time last year set a Kenyan record.Cheserek’s current challenge is that he attended Oregon on a student visa and was not able to obtain a green card while he was there, Young said. After Oregon, he applied for a green card, seeking approval on the basis of his athletic accomplishments, but was told he had not proved himself against pro runners. “If 17 N.C.A.A. championships won’t get you a green card, nothing will,” Young said.Until Cheserek has a green card, the clock cannot start ticking on the five years he has to wait before he can apply for United States citizenship. An act of Congress could expedite that process, but not much else. So if Cheserek, approaching his prime, wants to appear at this year’s world championships or next year’s Olympics in Tokyo, he will have to do it running for Kenya. (A later switch of nationality is allowed under international track and field rules.)In the meantime, Young has helped Cheserek obtain a P1 visa, more commonly referred to as the athlete and artist visa. It allows people who can demonstrate extraordinary talent to live and work in the United States for up to five years because their professions require the participation of the best people in the world. (Think of foreign-born N.B.A. stars and virtuoso violinists.)In January 2018, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which does not comment on individual cases, granted Cheserek a P1 visa for only one year rather than five.An application to extend his visa is still under review. Immigration officials have questioned whether the track meets and races Cheserek was participating in really required athletes of “international recognition,” as the statute states. Young said the concerns about Cheserek’s schedule were unfounded because the events he wanted to run — which included the New Balance Indoor Grand Prix, the Millrose Games and the Prefontaine Classic — were among the most prestigious meets in the world, so of course they required the services of internationally recognized athletes.Cheserek has until April 15 to file additional information. He is allowed to continue living and training in the United States until the case is decided, which may take several months.Until then, all he can do is run. The best result he can hope for is the path of Lagat, who attended Washington State. Lagat began his career running for Kenya but then represented the United States after gaining citizenship.“These athletes have a very short window of time to compete at the highest level internationally,” said Chris Lane, Cheserek’s agent. “We don’t want to restrict Ed from accomplishing his goals, and those include medals in the worlds and the Olympics.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mark Landler and Simon RomeroEL PASO — President Trump came to this bustling border city on Monday to rally support for his wall with Mexico. But he was met by El Paso’s favorite son, Beto O’Rourke, who denounced Mr. Trump’s claim that walls reduce violent crime and led the city’s residents in his own boisterous show of opposition.The dueling rallies, just across the Rio Grande from Mexico, offered a vivid snapshot of the national debate over immigration, as well as a tantalizing early glimpse of the rivalry between Mr. Trump and Mr. O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman who is now considering a challenge to the president in 2020.As he mulls a run for the Democratic presidential nomination, Mr. O’Rourke has seized on immigration as a defining issue. With a flair for political theater that even Mr. Trump took note of, Mr. O’Rourke addressed a crowd less than a mile from the El Paso County Coliseum, where the president spoke to thousands of cheering supporters.“We are not safe because of walls but in spite of walls,” Mr. O’Rourke said, speaking to supporters within earshot of Mr. Trump’s rally. “We have so much to give, so much to show the rest of the country.”Inside the arena, Mr. Trump was flanked by banners that said, “Finish the Wall,” and he faced a sea of red and blue signs urging him to “Build the Wall.”“We need the wall, and it has to be built,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “Today we started building the big beautiful wall right on the Rio Grande.”Mr. Trump’s rally, his first since an acrimonious debate over funding of the wall shut down the government, came as negotiators in Washington appeared to reach a deal, potentially averting another shutdown. The president said he was told about the agreement just before taking the stage.“We probably have some good news,” Mr. Trump said, almost grudgingly, before adding, “I don’t even want to hear about it.”In an interview with Laura Ingraham of Fox News that aired at the end of the rally, Mr. Trump seemed more concerned with talking about the number of supporters in the crowd on Monday night than about an update on negotiations with Congress.The president said he had had the option of receiving a briefing on the negotiations or going on camera.“It was between the deal and you, and I had to choose you,” Mr. Trump said. “They’re talking, and we’ll see what happens.”The president’s choice of El Paso to make his argument was curious on several grounds. Violent crime actually declined for years in this vibrant immigrant city across the river from Ciudad Juárez, Mexico, before the Army Corps of Engineers began building a fence in 2008. It rose during the two years before and after the barrier was constructed.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]A Democratic stronghold in a mostly Republican state, El Paso has long been one of the safer cities of its size in the United States — a trend that local law enforcement officials attribute to the residents and community policing, not to the border fence.Still, if Mr. Trump wanted to force the debate with Democrats, he could hardly have chosen a better place. The presence of Mr. O’Rourke, who represented the city in Congress before he gave up his House seat to run unsuccessfully for the Senate, guaranteed the president the kind of confrontation he relishes, even if the two men did not come face to face.Mr. Trump lost little time in ridiculing Mr. O’Rourke, describing him as “a young man who’s got very little going for himself, except he’s got a good first name.”“He’s supposed to win in order to run,” the president added. “Beto was defeated.”Mr. Trump’s discursive style delighted his crowd, though protesters heckled him more frequently than at other rallies since he became president. After one protester was escorted out of the arena to a chorus of boos from the crowd, the president asked, “Is there any place that’s more fun to be than a Trump rally?”Mr. Trump has insisted that El Paso was an example of why a wall is necessary.“Walls work,” he said, repeating his assertion that the crime rate went down in El Paso after the border wall was built. “Thanks to a border wall with Mexico,” he said, El Paso is “one of America’s safest cities.”Mr. O’Rourke debunked that claim on Friday in a lengthy post on the website Medium, in which he also tried to set out an alternative blueprint for overhauling the nation’s immigration laws. El Paso’s success, he said, repudiated Mr. Trump’s call for a border wall.“He will promise a wall and will repeat his lies about the dangers that immigrants pose,” Mr. O’Rourke said of the president.Mr. O’Rourke has spotlighted his heavily Latino hometown on Facebook and on other social media sites as an example of what works in immigration policy.A short walk from the coliseum, protesters gathered to march in a show of dissent against the president. Many held signs criticizing Mr. Trump; buttons, signs and stickers proclaiming “Beto 2020” could be seen throughout the crowd.“Trump is an insult to my proud military family,” said Isabel Harris, 60, an immigrant from Mexico who held a sign honoring her son Martin Ferrufino, 32, a disabled veteran of the Iraq war.Ms. Harris said Mr. Trump’s efforts to curb immigration was an affront to her son, who crossed the border illegally as a child. Later, he attended high school in El Paso and joined the Army.“My son sacrificed for this country, and this is how he’s treated? How we are treated?” Ms. Harris said in Spanish.Nearby, two El Paso-born brothers, Adam and Andrew Peña, also joined the protest against Mr. Trump.“Trump thinks he can rule us by fear,” said Adam Peña, 31, a lawyer who lives in San Diego and traveled to El Paso to voice his opposition. “I’m here to prove him wrong.”Mr. Trump got the idea to focus on El Paso from an exchange with the Texas attorney general, Ken Paxton, who told him the wall drastically reduced the city’s crime rate and therefore served as a persuasive argument for building one along more of the southwestern border.“After that fence went up and separated Juárez, which still has an extremely high crime rate, the crime rates in El Paso are now some of the lowest in the country,” Mr. Paxton said. “So we know it works.”While it is true that Juárez has a much higher crime rate than El Paso — and while the fence did cut down on illegal crossings — the rest of his statement is, at best, highly misleading.The El Paso Times, which analyzed three decades of statistics from the F.B.I. and the local police, found that crime peaked in 1993, with more than 6,500 violent crimes recorded. It then dropped by 34 percent over the next 13 years.The crime rate then increased by 17 percent from 2006 to 2011. Construction of the wall began in 2008, under President George W. Bush, and was completed in mid-2009, during the Obama administration. Crime has ebbed and flowed within a fairly narrow band since then.Local officials, including Mayor Dee Margo, a Republican, have spoken out against Mr. Trump’s claims. Representative Veronica Escobar, a Democrat who recently won Mr. O’Rourke’s former seat, has demanded that the president apologize and meet with migrant families seeking asylum in the United States. Among lawmakers who represent border districts, there is remarkably little support for a wall.Yet Mr. Trump has been undeterred. He repeated grisly stories of violent crimes committed by illegal immigrants — never mind that the crime rate among immigrants is no higher than among native-born residents. He said a wall would stem the flow of deadly opioids and other illicit drugs into the United States — another dubious assertion, given that most drugs arrive at legal ports of entry.Mr. Trump’s aides are trying to build momentum after last week’s State of the Union address, which they believe was well received by his political base. Unlike some of his predecessors, the president did not immediately leave on a road trip to sell the messages in the address. But he has been eager to return to rallies, which energize him and filled up his calendar before the midterm elections.Mr. Trump dismissed those who disputed his facts about the wall, saying the mayor of El Paso was “full of crap,” even if he was a Republican.“People of El Paso,” he asked, “am I right?”Emily Cochrane and Katie Rogers contributed reporting from Washington.OpinionRichard ParkerAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn KennyJudy Wood is a real-life lawyer who — after moving to California and getting a job with an immigration law firm — discovered a passion that, by this film’s telling, led her to a case that changed asylum policies in the United States. Directed by Sean Hanish from a script by Dmitry Portnoy, “Saint Judy” begins by underscoring the title character’s resourcefulness, then playing up her pluckiness and single-mom status.These latter components recall “Erin Brockovich,” the acclaimed fact-based drama of 2000 that starred Julia Roberts. Judy also has a crusty boss, Ray Hernandez (Alfred Molina), a soured one-time idealist unimpressed with Judy’s enthusiasm for a particular subject: Asefa, an Afghan woman in a detention center, who is so drugged up by her keepers as to be practically catatonic.Judy (Michelle Monaghan) wants to wean Asefa off her meds, learn her story and make a case for asylum. Ray just wants papers processed and bills paid, so he fires Judy. Judy starts her own firm, stumbles upon an intern who happens to own a Porsche (good for fast rides to and from detention centers) and gets busy.Monaghan herself is a plucky and resourceful performer. It’s nice to see her in a movie in which she has more to do than parachute in and evince concern for Tom Cruise, as she’s been doing in the last 10 or 20 “Mission Impossible” pictures. But while the viewer can intuit that Hanish has a strong clear story to tell, the director too often tricks things up with noncredible flashbacks, fatty getting-from-one-place-to-another montages scored to anthemic pop and other extraneous matter. This diffuses what could have been a more engaging and perhaps powerful movie.Movie data powered by IMDb.comRated PG-13 for language and themes. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Presidential budgets are by tradition declared dead on arrival even before the details reach Capitol Hill, and President Trump’s $4.75 trillion budget for the 2020 fiscal year received that greeting in spades on Monday.But with a new Democratic majority in the House, the release of Mr. Trump’s budget blueprints marked the start of a consequential budget season. House Democrats must now work out a blueprint for governing that will define the party’s vision in clear terms — and answer burning questions on health care, taxation, climate change and other policy matters that have dogged the new majority since it took control.In short, it is time for the Democrats to show their cards.“We have a very different set of values and priorities,” Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, told reporters on Monday. “Ours will be a very realistic budget resolution.”The budget is a nonbinding document, and with Republicans controlling the Senate, it may be impossible for the two chambers to work out their differences. Faced with that prospect, Democratic leadership on Monday discussed not holding a vote on the budget, according to a leadership aide. The meeting, first reported by Politico, did not end with a decision.Just as the first budget of the Tea Party Republican era, in 2011, defined the party for years, a budget passed by House Democrats this year would almost certainly have political consequences.Mr. Yarmuth outlined a number of issues that Democrats hope to address in a budget that he said the committee hoped to unveil by mid-April, pointing to health care savings, a possible immigration-law overhaul and infrastructure investment as likely priorities. He pointed to prescription drug pricing, combating the opioid epidemic, infrastructure and investment in cybersecurity as areas in the administration’s proposal that could yield compromise.“The ingredients — in terms of either end of the Capitol — are there to make a reasonable deal,” Mr. Yarmuth said. “The White House is the wild card.”But even without Republicans, Democrats will need to find common ground. An increasingly vocal left flank is adamant that their initiatives — such as “Medicare for all” and the ambitious Green New Deal — be included in an initial budget blueprint. More moderate Democrats are likely to be just as adamant that they are not.And Mr. Yarmuth appeared to tip his hand when he said that a final budget proposal would probably focus on protecting and restoring elements of the Affordable Care Act, as opposed to endorsing Medicare for all.This spring’s budget will force Democratic leadership to weigh the limitations of divided government against the desires of members who won their seats by promising to shake things up in Washington.In 2011, House Republicans — who also faced a Senate and a White House under the control of the opposing party — lost support from rank-and-file members as they muscled through an ambitious budget devised to limit federal spending. The budget produced by the Budget Committee chairman at the time, Paul D. Ryan, included deep domestic spending cuts and plans to offer voucherlike “premium support” to older Americans to buy private insurance outside Medicare. Democrats used that budget as a political cudgel.Democrats face the same prospects, and they are divided on which policies to enshrine in the blueprint. In an effort to hear a range of perspectives, Mr. Yarmuth has met with the Congressional Progressive Caucus and is scheduled to meet with the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of Democrats who preach fiscal discipline, to discuss the coming budget. Both groups have members on the Budget Committee.“So far, we haven’t run into any huge ideological obstacles to putting together a reasonable budget,” Mr. Yarmuth said.Representative Ro Khanna, a liberal Democrat from California and a member of the committee, said he planned to advocate the inclusion of Medicare for all and other facets of a progressive agenda, as well as rolling back some elements of Republican tax cuts passed under Mr. Trump and President George W. Bush.“We have to make the case for economic growth for progressive policies,” Mr. Khanna said in an interview. Including Medicare for all in the final budget provides an opportunity for Democrats to “explain to the American people that this is going to save average families and the country money.”He acknowledged that it was unlikely that there would be a complete embrace of all of the policies, particularly the Green New Deal’s sweeping plan for tackling climate change and providing jobs, but that should not deter Democrats from including some nods to the broader vision.“That pragmatic vision has to be done side by side with the aspirational one,” he said.Lawmakers also have to contend with a ballooning federal deficit and a looming deadline to address spending caps that Congress put in place under President Barack Obama. While Mr. Trump’s budget proposal technically adheres to the limitations, Mr. Yarmuth said the side were far from an ideal starting point in negotiations.“We’re so far apart in our priorities that we have to wonder if the White House is going to be a serious negotiator, and that’s disturbing,” Mr. Yarmuth said. “But, on the other hand, this is a proposal not unlike the one they submitted last year, and we ultimately came up with a spending agreement.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam JordanLOS ANGELES — Creating yet another roadblock to the Trump administration’s efforts to deport ineligible migrants, a federal appeals court ruled on Thursday that immigration authorities can no longer swiftly deport asylum seekers who fail an initial screening, opening the door for thousands of migrants a year to get another shot in the federal courts to win asylum in the United States.The ruling broadens constitutional protections for undocumented immigrants at the border and opens a new legal gateway for some of them to appeal for permission to stay in the country, even when an asylum officer and an immigration judge have made a determination that they do not have a credible fear of persecution in their homeland.“The historical and practical importance of this ruling cannot be overstated,” said Lee Gelernt, deputy director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s Immigrants’ Rights Project, who argued the appeal on behalf of a Sri Lankan migrant who had been turned away at California’s border with Mexico in 2017. He said the ruling “reaffirms the Constitution’s foundational principle that individuals deprived of their liberty must have access to a federal court.”After dropping precipitously over five decades, the number of migrants intercepted at the southern border — the key indicator of how many undocumented people are entering the United States — is soaring again, driven by an influx of families from Central America fleeing violence and poverty. Immigration authorities received more than 99,000 requests for asylum interviews during the 2018 fiscal year, including more than 54,000 submitted at the southwest border.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]President Trump has said that migrants are exploiting the asylum system by making baseless and fraudulent claims in order to remain in the United States, and his administration has taken a number of steps to make the process harder, including narrowing the grounds for winning asylum, limiting the number of asylum seekers who can be processed at the border each day and requiring some applicants to wait in Mexico while their cases make their way through the courts.In 2016, the most recent year for which data is available, an estimated 7,200 migrants were denied permission to apply for asylum after their initial interviews and were placed in expedited deportation proceedings. An analysis by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University found that in June 2018, only 15 percent of initial asylum reviews found that the asylum seeker had a credible fear of persecution, about half the proportion that had prevailed a year earlier.Thursday’s court decision will most likely send that trend in the other direction, legal analysts said.“This is a historic decision,” said Stephen Yale-Loehr, an immigration scholar at Cornell Law School. “But the government will surely appeal this to the Supreme Court.”The opinion, from the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, extends constitutional habeas corpus guarantees to those applying for asylum at the border and provides that they can seek a hearing in the federal courts before being summarily deported — though the court did not specify what standards the courts must use to evaluate such petitions.The ruling applies to asylum seekers in the nine western states included in the court’s jurisdiction and, because it conflicts with an earlier ruling rejecting such legal protections in the Third Circuit, the issue is likely to be resolved ultimately by the Supreme Court. In the meantime, legal analysts said, the court’s decision is likely to have sweeping implications for immigration deterrence efforts by enabling thousands to remain in the country while they seek the court review.Under current procedure, every migrant who arrives at the border and expresses a fear of persecution in his or her homeland is referred for an interview with an asylum officer. Those who succeed in convincing the officer that they have a credible fear are allowed to enter the country and proceed with their asylum cases in the immigration courts. Those who don’t can request a review by an immigration judge, but it is usually cursory and favorable decisions are rare. There is usually no access to a lawyer, and no opportunity to challenge the decision; deportation quickly ensues.In the case before the appeals court, Vijayakumar Thuraissigiam, a member of Sri Lanka’s Tamil ethnic minority, was arrested about 25 yards north of the border near San Ysidro, Calif., and told an asylum officer that he was fearful of returning to his homeland. The officer found no credible fear, and that finding was upheld by a supervisor and an immigration judge.Mr. Thuraissigiam was in deportation proceedings when he filed a habeas corpus petition in the federal court. He argued that the asylum officer had failed to elicit important background about his case, including that he had been detained and beaten by Sri Lankan army officers on two occasions, and at one point had been lowered into a well and nearly drowned. He also said there were communication problems between the translator and both the asylum officer and the immigration judge.As a result, his lawyers argued, he was deprived of “a meaningful right to apply for asylum.”A district court judge in Los Angeles rejected that argument, but the three-judge appeals court panel, sitting in San Francisco, held that even though an asylum seeker may lack the right to a full trial in immigration court, the Constitution requires a more complete review than what immigration law currently provides.At its “historical core,” said the 48-page opinion written by Judge A. Wallace Tashima, “the writ of habeas corpus has served as a means of reviewing the legality of executive detention, and it is in that context that its protections have been strongest.”An earlier version of this article listed five states in the 9th Circuit’s jurisdiction. There are nine states, plus additional territories.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIn the past, undocumented immigrants were mostly single men from Mexico, but that’s no longer the case. A look at who is coming and what is driving them.By Miriam JordanPresident Trump has tried to halt the arrival of undocumented migrants by beefing up border security, limiting who qualifies for asylum and, for a while, separating migrant children from their parents at the border. However, figures released on Tuesday suggest that those measures are failing to deter tens of thousands of migrants from journeying over land to the United States.Indeed, after shriveling to the smallest total in five decades, the number of migrants intercepted at the southern border — the best indicator of how many undocumented people are entering the United States — is soaring again.Border authorities detained nearly twice as many migrants — 268,044 — in the first five months of the fiscal year that started in October than were detained in the same period the previous year.To understand what’s happening, it’s important to look at who is coming, what is driving them and how the answers to those questions have changed over the years. [Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]In the past, undocumented immigrants were overwhelmingly single men from Mexico who slipped into the country undetected to find work and send money home. But immigration from Mexico has plummeted in recent years. In fact, more Mexicans are leaving than arriving in the United States. Mexicans are less compelled to come because there are more opportunities in their own country and they have smaller families to support.Central American families have become the new face of undocumented immigration.In the first five months of the fiscal year that began in October, the Border Patrol detained 136,150 people traveling in families with children, compared with 107,212 during all of fiscal 2018.A trend toward family migration from Central America that began when Barack Obama was president has endured, after temporarily dipping during Mr. Trump’s first year in office. [More than 76,000 migrants cross in a month. Read about the “breaking points.”]Many Central Americans live in fear. El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala have among the world’s highest homicide rates. Arriving migrants report that they have faced extortion, and want to prevent their children from being recruited by street gangs.But murder rates in the Northern Triangle countries have been declining in recent years, and economic imperatives are believed to be the most important push factor for the majority of recent arrivals. More than 90 percent of the most recent migrants are from Guatemala, according to the newly released data. The majority hail from impoverished regions, including the Western highlands, where conflicts over land rights, environmental changes and depressed prices for crops like maize and coffee are undermining the ability of farmers to make a living.[Read about the treatment of detainees with medical conditions.]Migrants generally lack understanding of United States immigration law. But they appear to be informed about the basics.The majority know to request asylum at the border, either at an official port of entry or when they surrender to border agents shortly after sneaking into the country from Mexico.They know that they are unlikely to remain detained if they travel with a child and that they have a better shot at fending off deportation when they come with a child.By law, the government cannot keep migrant families in holding facilities at the border for more than 72 hours. It must either transfer them to an immigration detention facility suitable for children or release them. The government has been letting thousands of detained migrants go free each week because it lacks enough beds to hold them in family detention facilities. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s three residential family centers — two in southern Texas and one in Pennsylvania — can accommodate 3,326 parents and children.The largest share of migrants arrive in Texas, but there appears to be a growing number who are entering through remote areas of Arizona and New Mexico.In the spring of 2018, the Trump administration tried to discourage parents from traveling with a child by prosecuting everyone who crossed the border illegally, even those who were traveling with children — a policy known as zero tolerance. This resulted in children being removed from their parents and placed in shelters across the country.The policy drew widespread condemnation, prompting the president to halt the practice in late June. But Customs and Border Protection officials believe that the various legal rulings preventing families from being detained have helped solidify the message to smugglers, who roam villages offering to guide people to the United States, that adults who come with a child are protected from deportation.Whether they sneak into the country in remote areas or enter the country through a port of entry, most migrants are trying to petition for asylum.In 2008, just under 5,000 applicants claimed they had a credible fear of persecution, the first legal step toward obtaining asylum, to avoid being returned to their homeland. Last year, nearly 100,000 claimed a credible fear.The Trump administration contends that people are flooding the asylum system with invalid claims. In recent years, immigration judges have granted less than 20 percent of asylum requests, a proportion that is even lower for Central Americans.Many asylum seekers from Central America claim they have been victims of gangs, which is harder to prove than political and other types of persecution. Poverty is not among the grounds for receiving asylum.If they are denied, asylum seekers can be deported. But since many are released while their case is pending, some never return to court and evade deportation. Miriam Jordan is a national immigration correspondent. She reports from a grassroots perspective on the impact of immigration policy. She has been a reporter in Mexico, Israel, Hong Kong, India and Brazil.  @mirjordan • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn Thrush and Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — Democrats filed into the House chamber on Thursday — depleted and punch drunk — to vote for an overstuffed resolution condemning prejudice — and end, or so they hoped, a week of infighting that vividly illustrated the perils of policing their own speech.“I hope this puts an end to all of this,” said Representative Robin Kelly, Democrat of Illinois, moments before the measure, which condemned anti-Semitism and virtually every other form of bigotry, passed with unanimous Democratic support.It almost certainly will not. The measure, which began as a rebuke to Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and a freshman lawmaker, and ended as a catchall declaration of tolerance that did not mention her by name, seemed to satisfy no one. Ultimately, the wrenching intraparty fight left unanswered a question that transcends partisan politics: In an era of shouting and provocation, how should Congress respond when its members say hateful or hurtful things?Ms. Omar, who suggested that pro-Israel activists were pushing an “allegiance to a foreign country,” is hardly the first member of Congress to make offensive remarks. Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, spent more than a decade making bigoted comments — he once said Mexicans had “calves the size of cantaloupes” from running drugs across the border — before he was stripped of his committee assignments after he wondered aloud why the term “white supremacy” was considered offensive.Plenty of others have skated up to the edge of racism and anti-Semitism with no consequence. Representative Andy Biggs, Republican of Arizona who branded Ms. Omar an anti-Semite, raised eyebrows in 2016 when he charged that the Jewish philanthropist George Soros was buying a local election for county attorney. Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, complained bitterly that last week’s anti-Semitism resolution had been watered down, just a few months after he accused Mr. Soros of collaborating with the Nazis during World War II. Patrick Gaspard, the president of Mr. Soros’s Open Society Foundations, demanded Mr. Gohmert apologize for the “disturbing and false anti-Semitic slur.”[Read also: “Why Some Republicans Voted Against the Antibigotry Resolution.”]While Republicans did rebuke Mr. King and occasionally criticize President Trump’s language — such as when he said there were “very fine people on both sides” of the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va. — rarely have they engaged in the kind of public soul-searching Democrats undertook last week. Now many Democrats worry they have set a new standard, creating a precedent that mandates a major response every time a member transgresses rules of rhetorical decorum that are ill-defined and subject to dispute.“We have to be careful,” said Ms. Kelly, a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, which fought to blunt criticism of Ms. Omar. “She was elected just like I was, and she has the right to say what she believes, just as I do.”Then there is the question of what happens if there is a next time. Some Jewish groups are already demanding that Ms. Omar be stripped of her seat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee — a step Democratic leaders have thus far been loath to take.“That’s the real question: what if this happens again? What are we going to do?” asked Representative Josh Gottheimer, Democrat of New Jersey, who was among those pushing strongly for a resolution focused solely on anti-Semitism.There are virtually no rules governing a House members’ right to say whatever they please outside of the parliamentary regulations covering proceedings on the floor and in committees. The first article of the official code of conduct of members, enforced by the Committee on Ethics, contains only a broad declaration, that, “A member, delegate, resident commissioner, officer or employee of the House shall behave at all times in a manner that shall reflect creditably on the House.”Punishing members for what they say, either through formal or informal channels, has been relatively rare since the 19th century, and representatives are far more likely to face a meaningful backlash by bucking leadership politically than for anything else they say.“We can’t police everybody’s speech, but there is a line,” said a visibly upset Representative Lois Frankel, a Democrat who represents a heavily Jewish district in Florida. She said Ms. Omar had crossed that line — intentionally or not — by criticizing the motives of Israel’s supporters instead of the policies of the Israeli government. That left a “blemish” on a party that prides itself on inclusion.“The King thing seemed like an easy call,” Representative Raúl M. Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, said of Mr. King’s punishment. “Have we set a precedent that we now have to live with? It’s hard to know. But we can’t keep doing this. We can’t stay on the seesaw.”Ms. Omar, 36, one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, fled war-torn Somalia when she was a child and spent four years in a refugee camp in Kenya. She has been fending off accusations of anti-Semitism for weeks; before last week’s uproar, Democratic leaders forced her to apologize for a comment she made in February, when she said support for Israel was “all about the Benjamins, baby” — a reference to $100 bills. Democratic leaders came down hard on her, and in her apology, she expressed gratitude to “Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes.”So when she told a gathering of liberals that pro-Israel activists were pushing “for allegiance to a foreign country,” leading Jewish Democrats were furious. Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee — who had already warned Ms. Omar that such comments would not be “swept under the rug” — issued a statement calling her words “a vile anti-Semitic slur” that had “no place in the Foreign Affairs Committee” — an indication, many felt, that she was in danger of losing her seat.Instead, Mr. Engel and other top Democrats settled on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism; at first they wanted to name Ms. Omar. But their plan went awry amid pushback from progressives and members of the black caucus, who noted that Ms. Omar herself was recently the target of anti-Muslim bigotry in West Virginia, where a poster linked her to the Sept. 11 attacks.By Tuesday evening, Speaker Nancy Pelosi — who insisted that Ms. Omar not be named and who wanted a broader resolution — had stepped in, telling her members the resolution would be amended to include anti-Muslim bias; eventually, it was expanded to include a condemnation of all forms of bigotry.Mr. King abstained from the vote, and 23 Republicans voted against the resolution, most of them deeming it a show vote. Some said Democrats should have handled Ms. Omar the way Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican leader, handled Mr. King, by stripping her of her committee assignments.Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California, who has served in the House for a quarter-century, said there was no comparison between Ms. Omar’s situation and Mr. King’s transgressions. In June, when Mr. King retweeted a Nazi sympathizer, Republican leaders and fellow Republicans said nothing. Only after he secured his seat after his toughest re-election bid did they act.“They put up with his outrageous comments for more than a decade, and they only took action because they thought it would damage the Republican brand,” she said.Several Democratic members privately questioned Ms. Pelosi’s decision to bring up the resolution at all, arguing the matter should have been dealt with in private to avoid a messy and distracting public debate. Others likened the internal debate over the resolution to a weeklong family therapy session, a painful but necessary airing of grievances.“That is the silver lining,” said Representative Hank Johnson, Democrat of Georgia, who came to power in 2007 after defeating a fellow Democrat who had also been accused of anti-Semitism. “We need to talk about things like this.”Representative Jamie Raskin, Democrat of Maryland and an author of the antibigotry resolution, said Ms. Pelosi had established guidelines for future behavior.“If we don’t stand on principles and values we’re going to be chasing every legislator in Congress around and proofreading their remarks,” he said. In a seeming warning to Ms. Omar, he added, “And we expect everybody to live up to the high standards we set out.”Democrats say they do not have the luxury of ignoring bigotry. With Ms. Omar, they are appealing to her own sense of responsibility to the party, and offering their own experience as a guide on how to move forward.In 2010, Mr. Grijalva called on tourists and conventioneers to boycott his home state of Arizona after Republicans passed a restrictive immigration law. He was hit with a backlash that taught him to temper his tongue.“It was a nightmare,” he said. “I felt like I was in a tunnel and couldn’t get out. But you learn. There is a muddy line between candor and civility — and civility is important around here. Whether you really mean it or not, that’s another question.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam Jordan and Caitlin DickersonOAKLAND, Calif. — Nearly nine months after the Trump administration officially rescinded its policy of separating migrant families who have illegally crossed the border, more than 200 migrant children have been taken from parents and other relatives and placed in institutional care, with some spending months in shelters and foster homes thousands of miles away from their parents.The latest data reported to the federal judge monitoring one of the most controversial of President Trump’s immigration policies shows that 245 children have been removed from their families since the court ordered the government to halt routine separations under last spring’s “zero tolerance” border enforcement policy. Some of the new separations are being undertaken with no clear documentation to help track the children’s whereabouts.Images of crying mothers and children at the border last year prompted an intense backlash across party lines, with all four living former first ladies and Melania Trump expressing horror at the policy. But despite President Trump’s June 20 executive order rescinding it, the practice was never completely suspended.Under the original policy, most children were removed because parents who illegally crossed the border were subject to criminal prosecution. The recent separations have occurred largely because parents have been flagged for fraud, a communicable disease or past criminal history — in some cases relatively minor violations, years in the past, that ordinarily would not lead to the loss of parental custody.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The new separations are taking place amid an unprecedented influx of migrant families from across the southern border that has highlighted the failure of the Trump administration’s hard-line policies to deter them. The Border Patrol detained 76,103 migrants in February, an 11-year high for that month. Among those intercepted were about 40,000 members of families, two-thirds more than in January.In Congress last week, Democrats grilled Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, over the separation policy, citing research that has found that separations from parents can inflict long-term psychological harm on children.Family separations also sometimes occurred under the Obama administration, but only rarely and in extreme cases in which a child’s safety appeared to be at risk.Customs and Border Protection officials say the separations are legal under the parameters set by the court and are intended to protect children, who they say may be threatened by human trafficking or by adults pretending to be a parent to capitalize on the advantage that gives them under American immigration laws.“C.B.P. does not declare that a parent poses danger to a child arbitrarily or without merit,” the agency said in a statement. It said agents “will maintain family unity to the greatest extent operationally feasible,” separating children only in the presence of “a legal requirement” set out in written policy or “an articulable safety or security concern that requires separation.”But opposition to the new separations has been growing from both outside and inside the federal government. At the Health and Human Services Department’s Office of Refugee Resettlement, which oversees the care of separated children until they can be reunited with their families, some officials have tried to resist receiving children referred to the agency by the Border Patrol.According to an official who was not authorized to discuss government business and spoke on the condition of anonymity, staff members have in some cases raised questions with Border Patrol agents about separations with what appear to be little or no justification. In some of those cases, border agents have refused to provide additional information, the official said, or if additional documents were provided, they were sometimes redacted to the point of illegibility.The official, along with another staff member at the Department of Homeland Security, the Border Patrol’s parent agency, said that some separations were occurring with no formal notification to the refugee resettlement office. Both officials said they had been made aware of concerns about an apparent inconsistency in standards applied by border agents when determining whether a family should be separated.The failure to keep accurate records suggests that more children could have been separated than the 245 accounted for by Feb. 20 in official records.The New York Times reviewed several cases of children who have been separated since the policy was officially ended, and learned of many others through the lawyers who handled them. Some of the new separations, the review showed, occurred in families with a parent who had a drunken-driving conviction in the past, or a 20-year-old nonviolent robbery conviction. In one case, a parent had been convicted of possession of a small amount of marijuana.Donna Abbott, vice president for refugee and immigrant services at Bethany Christian Services, a contractor that accommodates migrant children in temporary foster homes until they can be reunited with family members, said most cases of family separations do not list detailed reasons, making it difficult to evaluate whether they were appropriate.For example, some files state only that the parent was suspected of having gang affiliations or a criminal history, without additional information. “Is it trespassing or is it murder?” Ms. Abbott said.In December, a mother traveling from El Salvador with her three children was arrested and put on a bus to an immigration detention facility in Arizona while her children, ages 5, 8 and 15, were sent to foster care in New York.The woman, Deisy Ramirez, 38, said it was nearly six weeks before she talked to her children.They were “devastated,” said Ms. Ramirez’s sister, Silvia Ramirez, who was trying to persuade the government to allow her to take the children to live with her in Seattle while her sister was in custody. “They couldn’t understand why they were separated,” she said.On March 1, Ms. Ramirez’s eldest daughter was transferred to a hospital after threatening to take her own life, Silvia Ramirez said, and she remained there even after her mother’s release from detention last week.“I never imagined this could happen,” Deisy Ramirez said on Friday, her voice breaking. “All I want is to hold my children and to be with them.”Her lawyer, Ricardo de Anda, said he had received no response to his formal request for a reason for the separation. He suspects it may be connected to the fact that Ms. Ramirez had been deported from the United States more than a decade ago. He sent government lawyers a series of emails, ultimately securing her release.On Saturday, the day after her release from the Arizona detention facility, Ms. Ramirez was preparing to fly to New York to reunite with her children.Border agents removed 3-year-old Ashley Ramos from her father after they were detained last month in Arizona. He was swiftly deported to Guatemala and the girl was sent to a shelter.The child’s mother, Silvia Maribel Ramos, who had been separated from the pair during their journey from Guatemala when Mexican police pulled her and other migrants off their bus for questioning, arrived in Arizona a few days later, only to learn from authorities that her child was gone.“They told me they had no idea where she was, that I would find out after being released,” said Ms. Ramos, who is staying with relatives in Oakland, Calif.The child was located nearly two weeks later, she said, after her husband contacted Guatemalan authorities back home. Now Ms. Ramos is struggling with the paperwork required to recover Ashley. “My daughter can’t understand. She just weeps and begs to be with us,” she said.In late January, Victor Antonio Marin was separated from his 4-year-old son, whose mother is deceased, after they were detained near Calexico, Calif. According to his lawyer, Bob Boyce, Mr. Marin had a 20-year-old nonviolent robbery conviction in the United States that did not involve the use of a weapon. He served time and was deported back to El Salvador.Now Mr. Marin remains locked up in an immigration detention center while his child is in a shelter in Texas.Ruben Garcia, who runs a network of migrant shelters in El Paso, said that immigration authorities this month dropped off a distraught 18-year-old woman from Guatemala.The woman said she had given birth less than a week earlier and had been separated from her baby. Child welfare authorities had come to the hospital to take the child, who was a United States citizen; immigration agents took the mother back to a detention cell where she waited for several days. The baby’s first two weeks were spent away from the mother, who finally regained custody after interventions from multiple legal-aid groups, Mr. Garcia said.Since Mr. Trump ended the family separations under “zero tolerance” on June 20, about 2,700 children have been reunited with their parents. Still, thousands more children who were separated before the policy officially went into effect have not been accounted for, according to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. The investigators cited the lack of an efficient tracking system.The American Civil Liberties Union requested that the government locate the families, and on Friday, Judge Dana M. Sabraw ruled that they should be included in the pending litigation over protecting and reuniting separated families.“The hallmark of a civilized society is measured by how it treats its people and those within its borders,” the judge wrote in his opinion.Some families affected by the earlier zero-tolerance separations continue to face repercussions.A 9-year-old Guatemalan boy named Byron Xol has been shuffled among four shelters since he was dragged away from his father at the border nine months ago, while the policy was still in place.After his father was deported to Guatemala, the boy’s parents decided that the child should remain in the United States for safety reasons. With the help of a lawyer, they designated an American family in Buda, Tex., to care for him.But authorities have refused to allow Byron to join the family, citing an anti-trafficking policy that bars a child from being released to a nonrelative sponsor unless the sponsor has a verifiable relationship with the child going back at least a year.Detentions and deportation proceedings have also resulted in family separations far from the border.Christy Swatzell, an immigration lawyer in Memphis, said that two of her clients who crossed the border without authorization and were released to await the outcome of their cases were told by Immigration and Customs Enforcement to leave their children at home ahead of their monthly check-in with the agency. When they showed up at the I.C.E. office, they were detained and transferred to an immigration facility in Louisiana.One of the clients, Francisca Yanes, 33, is the mother of a 6-year-old girl who is physically disabled. “I was in tears, telling them about my daughter. But it didn’t matter,” said Ms. Yanes, whose child, Paola, remained in the care of family members for the entire 45 days she was in detention.The Guatemalan migrant was released on a $7,500 bond set by the court after her lawyer filed a motion on her behalf. “What we are seeing is that families are being effectively separated,” said Ms. Swatzell. “Just not at the border anymore.”Miriam Jordan reported from Oakland, Calif., and Caitlin Dickerson reported from New York.AdvertisementThe deaths of two children in Border Patrol custody point to shortfalls in health care provided to migrants, who sometimes arrive with serious illness and injury.Migrants from Honduras were taken into custody by Border Patrol agents near Granjeno, Tex., last month.CreditCreditTamir Kalifa for The New York TimesSupported byBy Sheri Fink and Caitlin DickersonMcALLEN, Tex. — It was nearly 9 p.m., hours after the makeshift clinic for newly arrived migrants near the Mexican border in Texas was supposed to close, but the patients would not stop coming: A feverish teenager with a vile-smelling wound on his foot. A man with a head injury and bright red eyes. Children with fevers, coughs and colds.Earlier in the day, a little girl named Nancy had been brought into the clinic with a cough and shaking chills. She had been vomiting, she said, and her spine hurt. An assistant took her temperature. “She’s got 104, almost 105,” she said.The steady flow of migrants who arrived that night at the volunteer respite center operated by Catholic Charities here in the Rio Grande Valley had just been released by Customs and Border Protection after being apprehended near the border. The new arrivals had been in federal custody for up to 72 hours, but most had received no real medical attention — the volunteer physicians at the private clinic were the first doctors many had seen since crossing the border.“He may lose that leg,” Dr. Martin Garza, a local pediatrician who works at the clinic every other weekend, warned the father of the teenager with the foot wound, handing him a course of antibiotics to take with him. “I cleaned it up as much as I could.”An average of 2,200 migrants a day are now crossing the nation’s 1,900-mile border with Mexico, many after grueling journeys that leave them injured, sick or badly dehydrated. Yet most of the nation’s Customs and Border Protection facilities along the border lack sufficient accommodations, staffing or procedures to thoroughly assess health needs or provide more than basic emergency care, a situation that has led to dangerous medical oversights.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]Six adults died in C.B.P. custody in the fiscal year ending in October, at least three of whom had a medical emergency shortly after being apprehended. Another, who had serious chronic diseases and was hospitalized, died from health complications last month. In December, two migrant children — Jakelin Caal Maquin, 7, and Felipe Gómez Alonzo, 8 — died within three weeks of each other after showing signs of illness while being held and transported by Border Patrol agents in Texas and New Mexico.A New York Times review of records and dozens of interviews with migrants, agents, researchers and health workers suggest that some of these deaths were not anomalies, but rather signs of entrenched problems that have repeatedly put detainees with medical conditions at risk.At respite centers like the one in McAllen, Tex., that shelter migrants for a night or two after they are released from Border Patrol custody, doctors say the care provided by the agency has sometimes been so poor that they have had to send new arrivals straight to emergency rooms.“They’re not treated as if their health and well-being is valued on any level,” said Dr. Anna Landau, a family medicine doctor who volunteers at a migrant shelter run by Catholic Community Services in Tucson. “How do you send people who are clearly hurting, clearly in pain and suffering, how do you just move them through as if they’re just another number, as opposed to an actual human being?”Migrants crossing the border from Mexico may be injured scaling barriers, in vehicle accidents, by gunfire or from nearly drowning. They may be suffering from dehydration, heat exhaustion or communicable illnesses — from influenza to chickenpox — that often spread in conditions of close confinement, though none so far have presented what health officials regard as an unusual or alarming public health or infectious disease threat. Some require medications for chronic diseases such as asthma, diabetes and high blood pressure. Yet Border Patrol facilities until now have failed to provide comprehensive health screenings for those in their care. Medications — including lifesaving prescriptions for such conditions as asthma, heart disease and infant diarrhea — are routinely confiscated. Some migrants describe being left alone in concrete cells with broken bones and recent surgeries, their pain medication deeply inadequate.In the coming days, the agency is expected to announce significant changes related to the health of migrants, including policies requiring Border Patrol agents to conduct more thorough interviews of each migrant who is processed through the system, and to refer all those who need care to a medical provider.The agency is also building a large new processing center in El Paso and adding $47 million to a private contract for migrant medical care.“We’re doing everything we can to ensure rapid medical care when needed,” Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, said at the White House in January. “The men and women of C.B.P. and ICE are doing the best they can with what they have, but they don’t have the facilities, the resources or the legal authorities to keep up with this crisis.”[Read: The Hidden Nightmare of Sexual Violence on the Border]Representative Raul Ruiz, a Democrat from California who is also a physician, helped secure funding for additional measures to improve migrant health after visiting border facilities where he said he saw children coughing and sneezing and infants without diapers, all packed tightly into cells with little in the way of food, soap and other basics. The Border Patrol stations and those working there were “unprepared, untrained and underequipped in dealing with the humanitarian needs of families,” he said.The moves come after years of warnings from both inside and outside government that were largely ignored by an agency that saw its primary mission as law enforcement — catching and deporting illegal border crossers, not nursing them back to health.“Border Patrol is a law enforcement agency. It’s not a humanitarian agency,” said Dr. Alexander L. Eastman, a senior medical officer with the Homeland Security Department who is trying to put into place, for the first time, a comprehensive approach to the care of migrants across the department.Some health care workers said they have seen Border Patrol agents in the field prioritize enforcement of immigration laws over migrants’ urgent medical needs. Ambulance crews near the border say they sometimes face delays at Border Patrol checkpoints.In one case around five years ago, described to The Times by two people who worked for an emergency medical response team in Starr County, Tex., a critically ill woman was driven across the bridge from Mexico into Rio Grande City and loaded into an ambulance from a nearby hospital. A paramedic, Sergio Garza Jr., began to help her with her breathing. But a C.B.P. employee, he said, opened the back doors of the vehicle and ordered the patient sent back, because she did not have papers to enter the United States.Mr. Garza and the director of his ambulance company protested, to no avail. Mr. Garza grudgingly transferred the patient back to a Mexican ambulance, which did not have trained personnel aboard, both he and the director recalled. Mr. Garza said he showed the patient’s husband how to squeeze an oxygen bag to try to keep his wife alive as she was driven toward a distant Mexican hospital. She died on the way there, the emergency workers said.For at least a decade, families and advocacy organizations have reported lapses in medical care for people in the custody of C.B.P. Complaints filed over the past few years included a mother who gave birth prematurely and was later forced to stay with the baby in a “dirty hold room,” a detainee who was refused access to prescribed heart medication, and a woman who had heavy vaginal bleeding after a sexual assault and was not provided any medical attention.The number of deaths remains unknown and is perhaps unknowable — the agency until December was not required to independently review or publicly report health-related deaths in its custody. And the consequences of failing to address urgent medical needs often emerge after detainees are quickly passed on to another agency, or released.In 2015, C.B.P. addressed some of the criticisms by establishing its first nationwide standards on transport and detention. However, the standards are nonbinding — the agency cannot be sued for not following them — and the subject of medical care in detention covers less than a page.Detention by Customs and Border Protection is intended to be brief — 72 hours or less, according to the standards. However that guideline is often broken. Felipe Gómez Alonzo, the boy who died in December and had influenza, was in his sixth day of detention when he was taken to a hospital, according to a timeline provided by the agency.At the hospital, Felipe was found to have a 103-degree fever. He was discharged from the emergency room several hours later, and agents took him back to a temporary holding cell at a highway checkpoint. Hours later, as the boy grew sicker, no medically trained agents were on duty there. He was returned to the hospital, but lost consciousness on the way.“Children should not be held in C.B.P. holding cells longer than 24 hours,” said Kathryn Hampton, a program officer for Physicians for Human Rights and the author of a recent study that found that the focus on securing the border has come at the cost of migrants’ safety.In some cases, Border Patrol agents take sick migrants to be seen at hospitals, but problems persist once they are brought back to C.B.P.’s crowded, ill-equipped facilities.Sonia Diaz-Castro, 39, an asylum seeker from Honduras, had fallen off the top of a 25-foot border wall as she entered the United States last year and was left barely able to move, with a broken elbow and pelvis.Border Patrol agents in New Mexico took her twice to local hospitals, and a doctor at one of them said he was promised by the agents that she would be given a wheelchair and have someone on hand to help her get around. She had neither. Though she was barely able to move, she was left alone in a concrete cell. When she had to use the toilet, she was forced to drag herself across the floor using her broken arm.“I just felt like crying out — like the only thing I could do was cry, and when I think about it, it still makes me want to cry,” Ms. Diaz-Castro said of the experience.On a typical afternoon in early February, Border Patrol radios in South Texas crackled with reports of “bodies,” people whose unauthorized crossing of the border had been detected by ground motion sensors and cameras on poles and tethered radar blimps.Agents responded as about 60 people from Honduras, Guatemala, Ecuador and Nicaragua, including mothers with children and some unaccompanied minors, clambered off rafts after crossing the Rio Grande. Hefting bags and babies, they climbed a muddy dirt path that cut through spiny brushlands, walking toward the agents, who awaited them at a gap in the border wall.René Reyes, a Border Patrol agent and emergency medical technician, eyeballed them for, he said, “anything life-threatening.”Mr. Reyes stopped briefly to ask parents about a boy with surgical scars on his head who was wearing a mask over his nose and mouth. He had a condition that causes too much fluid to build up in the brain, but he appeared stable. “The kids look O.K.,” Mr. Reyes concluded. His initial assessment of the entire group lasted less than five minutes.The children would get a more thorough medical check at their next stop, one of two temporary detention facilities in an industrial part of McAllen. Inside the agency’s largest processing center for migrants, chain-link fencing divides a vast warehouse with concrete floors into clusters of cells separating men from women and older children from parents. The site was opened in 2014 specifically for the temporary holding of families and unaccompanied children. When that site is full, an older facility with enclosed, jail-like cells processes families several blocks away.That afternoon, medical screeners sent a newly arrived 6-month-old, Victoria Medina, to the hospital after noticing that she was sick with a fever, severe cough and diarrhea. Hospital workers treated the baby and sent her back to C.B.P.That night Victoria’s mother, Mayte Medina, an 18-year-old from Honduras, lay on the bare floor of her chilly isolation cell under a thin Mylar sheet and held on tight to her coughing baby. The fever broke, but the diarrhea continued; the bottle of medicine Ms. Medina had carried with her to treat it had been in her backpack, which was confiscated when she was taken into custody. “I told everyone about it, everyone that saw her,” Ms. Medina said. “They never gave her anything.”Ms. Medina’s relatively easy access to medical care was possible in part because she was apprehended in the heart of the Rio Grande Valley, the most heavily trafficked way station for migrants in the United States. Last year, more than 63,200 migrants traveling as families were apprehended there.The Border Patrol facilities in McAllen are among the few in the country that have a small number of midlevel health professionals — nurse practitioners or physician assistants — on site. As government officials examine how they might expand medical services, those sites have been looked at as potential models.But even in those places, providing care in a facility where the ultimate decisions are controlled by law enforcement authorities sometimes frustrates practice and strains ethics. A former contract health care worker at the McAllen sites, who was not authorized to speak on the record by her previous employer, Loyal Source, recalled several occasions when she had alerted agents that a patient needed to go to the emergency room. Two or three hours later, she said, the patient was still there.Sometimes, she said, she blocked migrants with high fevers from being released to longer-term detention facilities. But she also sometimes felt intimidated, as if she would be blamed for slowing down the flow.She said that according to protocol, if a woman claimed that she had been raped, she had to be offered access to medical care to check for pregnancy, trauma and sexually transmitted infections. But that didn’t always occur, she said.In recent months, large groups of children and families have crossed into the United States  in remote desert areas lacking in medical infrastructure, including Antelope Wells, N.M., where one of the fatally ill children, Jakelin Caal Maquin, had arrived. A total of 15 Border Patrol stations or ports of entry that are within 100 miles of the southern border have no hospital within an hour’s drive, the Times review found.It is a perilous twist on a problem that has existed for years, after changes in border enforcement practices pushed furtive crossings into these areas.Some migrants encounter agents and turn themselves in; others spend days traversing vast ranchlands in extreme heat. Hundreds die every year. Agents often have to extract sick migrants from rough terrain to meet ambulance personnel, who may have to drive for hours to reach hospitals.An earlier attempt to solve the problem led to the creation in 1998 of a unit trained in tactical rescues and emergency medical services that has performed thousands of medical interventions. A separate program trains regular agents as emergency medical technicians. Over all, around 6 percent of Border Patrol agents can act as emergency medical services providers. Still, the vast majority have only basic training. Their protocols and equipment are limited. And they are not present everywhere their skills are needed.Border patrol station or port of entry...... without a hospital within an hour’s drive... with only one hospital within an hour’s driveNEWMEXICOARIZONATEXASCALIF.El PasoLosAngelesTucsonLaredoMcAllen100 MILESMEXICONORTHBorder patrol station or port of entry...... without a hospital within an hour’s drive... with only one hospital within an hour’s driveNEWMEXICOTEXASARIZONACALIF.El PasoLosAngelesTucsonLaredoMcAllenMEXICO100 MILESNORTHBorder patrol station or port of entry...... without a hospital within an hour’s drive... with only one hospital within an hour’s driveNEWMEXICOARIZONATEXASCALIF.El PasoLosAngelesTucsonLaredoMEXICO100 MILESNORTHBorder patrol station or port of entry... ... without a hospital within an hour’s drive... with only one hospital within an hour’s driveNEWMEXICOARIZONATEXASCALIF.MEXICO100 MILESNORTHSources: State health departments, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and Openrouteservice.org | Note: Only stations within 100 miles of the border are shown. Forward operating bases are not shown.By Denise LuWhere local emergency rooms are close at hand, Border Patrol agents tend to err on the side of caution, taking their charges for costly and sometimes unnecessary medical evaluations, several health providers said.In other cases, the Border Patrol focuses on moving migrants quickly through the system, and many end up in shelters and clinics run by charities, such as the one operated by Catholic Charities in McAllen.On a recent evening, dozens of migrants were dropped off at a shelter near the southern border of California, run by the San Diego Rapid Response Network. They stood outside, lined up near white tents under lights powered by a roaring generator. Medical workers supported by the county screened them for communicable diseases and other conditions.The rotating medical team diagnosed many untreated conditions that could spread, including 362 cases of lice, 113 cases of scabies, 22 cases of possible influenza, and four cases of chickenpox in the first two months of this year. The medical professionals referred 52 people to an emergency room.One young man stood out that evening. He limped to the tent on crutches, in great pain. A metal fixator emerged from his lower left leg, swaddled in layers of bloodied gauze. The only medical record a nurse could find in his belongings was a single X-ray showing a severe fracture he had sustained on his journey to the United States.The man had undergone surgery on his leg at a nearby hospital and was returned to detention the previous night. Now he was at the shelter. “They just dropped him here,” Dr. Kathy Fischer, the doctor on duty, said with a note of incredulity in her voice. “It’s kind of crazy.”Sheri Fink reported from McAllen and San Ysidro, Calif., and Caitlin Dickerson from El Paso. Susan Beachy contributed research.Follow Sheri Fink on Twitter @sherifink and Caitlin Dickerson @itscaitlinhd.AdvertisementA woman and her daughter flee persecution in Honduras. Despite identical circumstances, the mother is granted entry, while her daughter is deported. And there is little to be done about it.Susan, who is back in Honduras and living with a neighbor after being separated from her sister and mother and deported.CreditCreditSupported byBy Beth FertigPhotographs by Victor J. BlueEven after more than six months, Kirad wasn’t used to sharing a bed with her mother. She was now 17, and ever since they arrived in New York after fleeing Honduras, they were stuck in the same room.They were staying in a tiny bungalow in Far Rockaway, Queens, that belonged to Kirad’s aunt. The only common space was a kitchen just big enough to squeeze in a love seat and a small table. Every surface was covered with pots and pans, cereal boxes and bags of food.“We fight sometimes over the TV,” Kirad said, “because my mom wants to watch something and I want to watch something different so I go to my aunt’s room.”For the most part, they have made it work.As cramped as it is in this tiny room, Kirad had hoped to have one more family member sharing this space: her older sister, Susan. She and her mother last saw Susan in July, when they crossed the Mexican border into Eagle Pass, Tex. The family of three was seeking asylum.Kirad and her mother, Ana Batiz, were allowed to pursue their case in immigration court, and went on to New York. But Susan was not. She was sent back to Honduras by herself.“I’m sure my mother would sleep on the couch or on the floor or whatever for the three of us to be together,” Kirad said.“I have never been away from them,” Ms. Batiz said of her daughters. This is a story about the brutal math that asylum seekers face at the border today. In this case, a mother and a daughter with virtually identical circumstances try to immigrate to the United States. Each has an interview with an asylum officer that could alter their lives forever.[Read about a family’s experiences in the hours before the father of five children is deported.] One persuades her interviewer that returning to Honduras was too dangerous; she enters the country to pursue an asylum claim.The other, an 18-year-old, fails that same test. As a result, she is separated from her only family and sent back, alone, to an environment where she feels threatened every day.When Ana Batiz and her daughters arrived at the border, she did not even realize they had crossed illegally. She said she did not know there was an official point of entry at Eagle Pass, she said, so they waded across the dangerous waters of the Rio Grande with other migrants.Ms. Batiz left her small village on the Atlantic coast of Honduras with plans to seek asylum, because she was persecuted for having H.I.V. “I don’t think it’s right,” she said, “for someone to tell you, ‘You should die.’”The family did not join a caravan. She said they hitched rides with other Hondurans heading north. It all fell apart when they got to the Texas border. Ms. Batiz and her two daughters were taken to what immigrants call a hielera, Spanish for “icebox,” a processing center run by Customs and Border Protection.That night of their arrival at Eagle Pass, according to Kirad, border agents took Susan, along with about 10 others, all young men, out of the room. “They told my mother that they were going to take me out and bring me right back,” Susan recalled.But she didn’t return.Long before the Trump administration’s recent policy of separating migrant children from their parents, Customs and Border Protection agents have been taking children ages 18 and over away from their parents. This is because the agency considers them to be legal adults, who should be sent to adult detention centers instead of staying with families. With the current surge in families crossing the border, this means even more 18-year-olds could find themselves separated from their parents. But there’s a paradox here. Although Susan was considered an adult at the border, she would have been considered a child in the United States as an immigrant seeking asylum.That’s because older teens like Susan fall into conflicting categories under U.S. immigration policies. The Immigration and Nationality Act defines anyone under 21 and unmarried as a child. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services also uses this definition and allows children under 21 to accompany their parents to asylum interviews. These interviews are crucial because they determine whether a migrant can stay in the country and pursue their case in immigration court.As an adult at the border, Susan had been separated from her family, so she couldn’t attend her mother’s asylum interview. She would have to fend for herself.Until 2010, people with H.I.V. were actually banned from entering the United States. When that changed, people with H.I.V. could also seek asylum in the U.S. if they were persecuted for it in their home country. Ms. Batiz and her daughters made a strong case that they were. She has asked that we not use the last names of her daughters out of fear for their safety.In their small Honduran town, Ms. Batiz’s family was part of the Garifuna community, descendants of enslaved Africans and indigenous Central Americans. The Garifuna tend to be extremely poor, and they have the highest rate of H.I.V. transmissions in Honduras.Ms. Batiz said she learned she was infected only after Kirad was born. She felt ill and went to a doctor, who told her the news: She was H.I.V. positive and had been for years. Her boyfriend, who most likely infected her, left. “He abandoned us,” she said. He’s the father of her three youngest daughters (she has two older children from a previous relationship). She had the girls tested. Susan, the middle child, was H.I.V. positive too.Ms. Batiz turned to a nongovernmental organization in Honduras that helps people with H.I.V. She became an H.I.V. educator. Soon, Ms. Batiz was working for the organization, attending protests to demand more medicine. One time, she said, police used tear gas and hoses on demonstrators. She was also featured in a 2013 video by the Pulitzer Center about what it’s like to be Garifuna and living with H.I.V.Her descriptions are reminiscent of AIDS activists in the U.S. during the 1980s who were part of the protest movement Act Up. Ms. Batiz said this activity made her an easy target in Honduras. She was a black woman with H.I.V., protesting for better conditions, and living in a place where people are terrified of AIDS. “Sometimes I was walking down the street and some people would see me and say, ‘Here comes the one with SIDA,’” she said, using the Spanish word for AIDS. “It’s very difficult situation to be there as an activist.”Officially, Honduras has stronger protections for people with H.I.V. than some of its neighbors. But the reality, according to Amnesty International and the U.S. State Department, is that people with H.I.V. are routinely denied access to jobs, education and health services.“The women who are infected are considered to be dirty,” said Deborah Ottenheimer, a Manhattan-based gynecologist who does exams for women seeking asylum because of human rights abuses. She has met Honduran women with H.I.V. who experienced all types of persecution, including forced sterilization.“They can’t get jobs, they often are attacked. Their children — especially if their children are thought to be, not even known to be, but thought to be H.I.V. positive — will also be discriminated against. They won’t be allowed to go to school.”Ms. Batiz’s daughters suffered at school, especially Susan. “Everybody, all my classmates, knew about my mother and my sister, too,” Kirad recalled. She said they called Susan “sidosa,” a slur against people with AIDS.There were also vicious attacks. “They would take her to the bathroom and would put her head in the toilet,” Kirad said, adding that these were filthy toilets without modern plumbing.Kirad said she saw students push her sister’s head into a toilet on about five different occasions, and that she would try to fight the other kids in the bathroom. Susan didn’t want to tell their mother, but Kirad did. When Ms. Batiz confronted the school, she said the director behaved as though it was no big deal. At some point around 2016, things got so bad that she took both of her girls out of school and kept them at home.The next year, Ms. Batiz said her house was burned down under mysterious circumstances. No one was home at the time. She didn’t know who did it, and she didn’t contact the police because she was certain they wouldn’t investigate. But she said she knew it was arson because she smelled the gasoline. “I think they were trying to get me to leave,” she said.The family moved in with neighboring friends, but Ms. Batiz started making plans to take Kirad and Susan to stay with her sister in New York.When asylum officers conduct a credible fear interview, they ask basic questions about how a migrant was persecuted and what role the authorities played. The Trump Administration claims the bar is too low because most easily pass, even though less than a quarter actually wind up getting asylum. Migrants who pass the test can wait years for their asylum cases to go to immigration court, because of an enormous backlog. In the meantime they can qualify for working papers. The president has criticized this as “catch and release.”Ms. Batiz said her interview happened the same day she arrived at the “icebox.” She recalled the two officers who questioned her gasping when she told them how she faced discrimination for having H.I.V. “I think that’s why they took me out quickly,” she said.The next morning, Ms. Batiz and Kirad were released to go on to New York. They didn’t know what happened to Susan, only that she had been taken away hours earlier. Kirad said they asked people at the processing center but were told only that Susan was taken to a different place. “My mother started crying,” she recalled. With no additional information, they took a bus to San Antonio where they got assistance from a Catholic aid organization, which paid for them to fly to New York.Soon after arriving at her sister’s home in Far Rockaway, Ms. Batiz got a call from Susan. She was 1,900 miles away at an adult detention center in Pearsall, Tex., run by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. She was examined by a doctor and given H.I.V. medications. But it took three weeks for her to get her credible fear interview.During that waiting period, Susan said a doctor told her that the H.I.V. drugs she was given in Honduras were not working well. She said she was also under great distress, begging other detainees in her room to let her sleep on the bottom bunk because she was afraid of heights. She had never been away from her mother before and said she was scared of the women who worked at the detention center, claiming they said cruel things to her because she was black and from Honduras.The credible fear interview took place on Aug. 8, with an asylum officer speaking English in person and a Spanish interpreter on the phone. When we spoke in January, Susan recalled telling the officer about the persecution she suffered at school. She said she described how classmates would abuse her in the bathrooms. “They would put my head in the toilet and urinate on me.”The transcript of Susan’s credible fear interview does not include this graphic incident. Regardless, it shows that Susan clearly stated that she was threatened and discriminated against, and that students wanted to kill her. “Because I am H.I.V.-positive,” she said, “and because I am black.” She said students feared she would “contaminate” them.Susan also described an episode in which her classmates beat her legs with a stick so badly that she was taken to a hospital. There, she said, the nurses gave her “dirty looks” because they “discriminate against black girls.”Police officers spoke with Susan at the hospital. She said she told them about the attack, and that they helped her by talking to the school. When asked by the asylum officer how the police treated black people and those with H.I.V., Susan answered, “They treat them well.”The asylum officer found Susan’s overall account credible. But she made a distinction that prevented Susan from moving forward with her asylum case. She checked a box that said “credible fear of persecution NOT established.” She left unchecked all of the boxes designating asylum eligibility because of persecution. These are race, religion, political activity, nationality and membership in a particular social group. This last category could include people with H.I.V.A couple of immigration and asylum experts who viewed the transcript said Susan was rightfully rejected because she said the police were helpful. Stan Weber, an immigration lawyer in Brooklyn who previously worked for ICE, said he could see that argument, in part.Mr. Weber explained that the persecution Susan described was not from “a government actor or an agent of the government.” He added, “The parties that were inflicting the persecution or the threat of persecution were private actors.”In other words, Susan was being bullied by her classmates. Nonetheless, Mr. Weber is among several experts who believe the asylum officer was unfair to Susan, noting her youth, the possibility of a language barrier and her emotional state.Early in the transcript it notes “applicant is crying.” Shortly after, there’s another red flag.“Interpreter notes that the applicant doesn’t seem to connect terms in Spanish,” the transcript read, adding that the interpreter and applicant “might not be able to understand each other clearly.”Susan speaks both Spanish and Garifuna. She was asked if she preferred a Garifuna interpreter but she responded that she was fine continuing in Spanish. Mr. Weber said that should have given the asylum officer pause.“You have an 18-year-old child separated from her parent that doesn’t speak a primary language that you’re conversing in, that the interpreter’s indicated that there’s problems understanding, and she’s crying and she has a very stigmatized condition, H.I.V. positive,” he said. “The officer, I think, blew it.”He said the asylum officer also missed an obvious opportunity to ask about Susan’s mother, because Susan stated that they came together and that her mother had gone on to New York.Susan now claims the asylum officer pressured her to say the police were helpful. Within the transcript, she also said she was threatened at school by students about 20 times and never reported these incidents to the police “out of fear, because they told me they would hurt me more if I reported it.”Later in August, Susan asked an immigration judge to review the asylum officer’s decision. But she had no lawyer, and the hearing was conducted by video. The judge denied her appeal. Susan’s family then scraped up the money to hire Elizabeth Caballero, a lawyer in Texas, who asked U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services for a new credible fear interview. Despite additional written testimony from Susan’s mother and sister about her persecution, she was deported. Susan was put on a plane back to Honduras in November without any advance notice, Ms. Caballero said, giving her no chance to legally intervene. In her 12 years practicing immigration law, she said, only one other client was deported without any warning. She’s still angry about it.“Here we have somebody that can actually be considered part of a particular social group,” Ms. Caballero said. “And she got denied.”A spokeswoman with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services said it can’t comment on individual cases. But she noted the 2010 law that allowed people with H.I.V. to enter the country. She also said the agency reviews each case on its own merit, with decisions based on relevant laws and evidence.“They didn’t want her here,” Ms. Caballero concluded, adding she suspects it’s because Susan has H.I.V. “They’re just as ignorant as the people who discriminate against her over there, in her home country.”In Queens, Ms. Batiz describes feeling at ease without the discrimination she suffered in Honduras. But she constantly worries about Susan. In January, Ms. Batiz met with her lawyer, Cristina Velez, at the Jamaica office of Queens Legal Services. They sat at a small table in a sparsely furnished conference room and made a video call to Susan in Honduras, so Ms. Velez could learn more about what happened to prepare for Ms. Batiz’s asylum claim.Susan’s oval face filled the screen of her mother’s cellphone. Now 19, she is staying with the same friends who put her family up after the 2017 fire. The two-room house is crowded, with a bedroom where seven people are sleeping. It’s crammed with belongings, and the windows are covered by wooden shutters and fabric.Susan pointed the phone to show her mother and lawyer the bright blue Caribbean sky and the bed where she sleeps. A paralegal who is fluent in Spanish was translating for Ms. Velez and everyone wanted to know one thing: Is she safe?“I do not feel safe,” Susan said through the interpreter, her voice growing animated. When Ms. Velez asked why, she described people coming to the house and threatening her.“They wear ski masks on their head and they told me that they’re going to kill me if they see me alone, and why did I come back here? I should have stayed with my mother where I was.”Susan said it has happened about six times since she returned in November, and that they sometimes pointed guns at her. “They want to kill me because I have H.I.V.,” she said. She locks herself in the house when they come. She said she doesn’t know who they are, but speculated that the men could be members of the local gangs, so common in Honduras, who have threatened her family and others in the past for refusing to cooperate with them. Susan said she only goes out with a friend occasionally, or to take a taxi to the hospital once a month for her H.I.V. medicine.After listening to this account, Ms. Velez said that Ms. Batiz has a very strong case for asylum and that Susan would have, as well. She can’t understand the logic in separating the mother and daughter.“I haven’t seen a case in which a family member who is really still dependent on the parent and whose cases overlap so entirely be separated from the family unit and not permitted to make her case,” she said.Kirad is now starting over as a freshman at a public high school in Queens with a bilingual program. She has a backpack filled with notebooks for math, history, biology and English. She thinks Susan would love the high school, and wishes they could go together.But the odds are against Susan ever joining her sister. Because she failed to persuade an asylum officer of her credible fear, and her appeal to a judge was then denied, Susan can’t try seeking asylum again. Even if she were somehow able to make the trek by herself from Honduras to the border, she would face a different process for being allowed to stay in the country because of her prior removal. The bar for passing this test would be much higher, making that “a risky proposition” according to Ms. Velez, her mother’s lawyer.Now Susan’s only hope of coming to the U.S. lies with her mother’s case. If Ms. Batiz is granted asylum, she could bring her daughter here as a dependent. Her next court date is in May, but it’s just a procedural hearing. The immigration court in New York is so backlogged it could take another year or more for her trial.Speaking from Honduras, Susan said she’s not giving up hope. She hasn’t been able to go to school for about three years. But if she makes it to the U.S., she said, she wants to go to a technical school and become a nurse. “I want to keep studying and doing something with my life,” she said.José Olivares of WNYC contributed translation assistance and research, and Lidia Hernandez contributed translation assistance.Beth Fertig (@bethfertig) is a reporter for WNYC.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________• Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has recommended designating Iran’s Revolutionary Guards as a foreign terrorist organization. It would be the first time the United States designated a unit of another government’s military as a terrorist group, and some American officials caution it could put troops and intelligence officers at risk.• President Trump hosted Jair Bolsonaro, the Brazilian president, at the White House on Tuesday. Mr. Bolsonaro is a brash nationalist whose populist appeal comes from his use of Twitter and his history of making crude statements.• The Trump administration’s $1.5 trillion tax cut in 2017 promised sustained economic growth. But while the cuts have activated some aspects of the economy in the short term, officials now concede they will not be enough to deliver the 3 percent annual growth the president promised over the long term.• For years, the Pentagon has maintained that no civilians have been killed in American airstrikes and raids in Somalia. In a new report released Tuesday, however, Amnesty International put the death toll at 14 since 2017 alone. The report linked the killings to Mr. Trump’s decision to relax rules for preventing civilian casualties.• The Supreme Court adopted a strict interpretation of a federal immigration law, saying it required the detention of immigrants facing deportation without the possibility of bail if they had committed crimes, including minor ones, no matter how long ago they had been released from criminal custody.• When asked whether a white society was superior to a nonwhite society, Representative Steve King of Iowa — already under scrutiny for his history of racist comments — answered, “I don’t have an answer for that, that’s so hypothetical.”• Mr. Trump directly attacked George T. Conway III, the husband of his senior adviser Kellyanne Conway, calling him a “total loser” after Mr. Conway questioned the president’s mental fitness.• When asked about his criticism of Senator John McCain, who died in August, Mr. Trump attacked the senator’s vote on repealing the Affordable Care Act. Mr. Trump added that he was “never a fan” of the senator, and never will be.• Stung by obscene and pointed criticism, Representative Devin Nunes, a Republican from California, has sued Twitter and three users for defamation, claiming the users smeared him and the platform allowed it to happen because of a political agenda.• How did Peter Parker, Bruce Wayne and Kathryn Janeway wind up in the credits for the 2019 Economic Report of the President? The story behind the straight-out-of-Comic-Con Easter egg._____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Tuesday adopted a strict interpretation of a federal immigration law, saying it required the detention of immigrants facing deportation without the possibility of bail if they had committed crimes, including minor ones, no matter how long ago they had been released from criminal custody.The vote was 5 to 4, with the court’s more conservative justices in the majority. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., writing for the majority, said the plain language of a federal law required the result.Justice Stephen G. Breyer summarized his dissent from the bench, a sign of profound disagreement. He said the majority had violated the nation’s basic values.“The greater importance of the case,” he said, “lies in the power that the majority’s interpretation grants the government. It is a power to detain persons who committed a minor crime many years before. And it is a power to hold those persons, perhaps for many months, without an opportunity to obtain bail.”Justice Alito said the law may be subject to constitutional challenges in individual cases, a subject that was not before the justices. It was clear, he wrote, that Congress had required the secretary of Homeland Security to take into custody immigrants released from criminal custody even if years had passed in the meantime.“An official’s crucial duties are better carried out late than never,” Justice Alito wrote.Cecillia Wang, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, which represented the immigrants challenging the law, said the decision was part of a worrisome trend.“For two terms in a row now,” she said, “the Supreme Court has endorsed the most extreme interpretation of immigration detention statutes, allowing mass incarceration of people without any hearing, simply because they are defending themselves against a deportation charge.”The case concerned a law, enacted in 1996, which included a contested phrase. It said federal authorities “shall take into custody any alien” convicted of certain crimes, some serious and some minor, “when the alien is released.” The key word was “when.”Immigrants’ rights advocates said the law required prompt detention. Lawyers for the federal government said immigrants convicted of crimes may be detained years after their release.The difference matters, for hundreds and perhaps thousands of immigrants, because people detained under the law are not entitled to a bail hearing to determine whether they are dangerous or pose a flight risk.The plaintiffs included people who entered the country illegally, tourists or students who overstayed their visas and lawful permanent residents. Among them were immigrants who arrived in the United States legally as infants, committed minor crimes like possessing marijuana and were detained years after completing their sentences.The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, concluded that the law requires mandatory detention only if the federal authorities take immigrants into custody soon after they are released.“Because Congress’s use of the word ‘when’ conveys immediacy,” Jacqueline H. Nguyen wrote for a unanimous three-judge panel, “we conclude that the immigration detention must occur promptly upon the aliens’ release from criminal custody.”Justice Alito wrote that such a strict deadline could allow local authorities opposed to federal immigration policy to frustrate the goals of the federal law.“State and local officials sometimes rebuff the government’s request that they give notice when a criminal alien will be released,” he wrote. He cited statistics indicating that there were tens of thousand of such refusals in 48 states from January 2014 to September 2016.“Under these circumstances, it is hard to believe that Congress made the secretary’s mandatory-detention authority vanish at the stroke of midnight after an alien’s release,” he wrote.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Clarence Thomas, Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh joined all or most of the majority opinion.In a concurring opinion, Justice Kavanaugh wrote that the question before the court was a narrow one.He said it was beyond dispute that the government can deport immigrants convicted of some crimes and that it can detain them during deportation proceedings.The question the court decided, he wrote, was merely whether “the executive branch’s mandatory duty to detain a particular noncitizen when the noncitizen is released from criminal custody remains mandatory if the executive branch fails to immediately detain the noncitizen when the noncitizen is released from criminal custody.”It would be odd, he wrote, for that requirement to change, for example, “if the executive branch fails to immediately detain the noncitizen because of resource constraints or because the executive branch cannot immediately locate and apprehend the individual in question.”In dissent, Justice Breyer wrote that the case was neither narrow nor technical.“Under the government’s view,” he wrote, “the aliens subject to detention without a bail hearing may have been released from criminal custody years earlier, and may have established families and put down roots in a community.”“These aliens,” Justice Breyer wrote, “may then be detained for months, sometimes years, without the possibility of release; they may have been convicted of only minor crimes — for example, minor drug offenses, or crimes of ‘moral turpitude’ such as illegally downloading music or possessing stolen bus transfers; and they sometimes may be innocent spouses or children of a suspect person.”Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan joined the dissent in the case, Nielsen v. Preap, No. 16-1363.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zolan Kanno-YoungsWASHINGTON — In announcing the United States’ annual list of the world’s worst human rights violations, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo this past week singled out South Sudan and Nicaragua for government-sanctioned atrocities against their own people.Over the past year in South Sudan, Mr. Pompeo said, “military forces waged sexual violence against civilians based on their political allegiances and their ethnicity.” In Nicaragua, he said “when citizens peacefully protested Social Security benefits, they were met with sniper fire.”But the Department of Homeland Security has sought to limit the number of immigrants who left South Sudan or Nicaragua for safety, seeking to temporarily live and work legally in the United States.The apparent contradiction shows the Trump administration’s competing priorities and how they affect foreigners facing government corruption and violence.Even as homeland security has sought to tighten American borders and strictly enforce immigration laws, the State Department is highlighting some of the very systematic abuses that have sent people fleeing to the United States.That “perfectly illustrates the unfairness inherent in this administration’s approach to temporary protected status,” said Ahilan Arulanantham, the senior counsel at the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, referring to a program that gives immigrants short-term residency. He is representing plaintiffs in a lawsuit against the administration’s efforts to pull those protections from immigrants.Homeland security officials defended its approach to limit — and in many cases revoke — temporary protected status on a country by country basis.The policy, first enacted in 1990, allowed people from countries suffering from war, natural disasters, epidemic or “extraordinary and temporary conditions” to live and work in the United States until their homelands stabilized. The Trump administration has sought to restrict it, saying the protections have allowed immigrants to gain long-term residency.One homeland security official said the policy was never intended to give permanent relief to immigrants, who could otherwise apply for refugee grants or benefit from American political pressure or direct intervention on their home countries. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss a policy that is being challenged in court.An estimated 2,500 Nicaraguans are living in the United States under temporary protected status and have been ordered to leave, adjust their immigration status or face deportation. They have been given a reprieve as a federal court in California considers their case, along with immigrants from El Salvador, Haiti, Sudan, Honduras and Nepal who are also challenging the administration’s deportation order, which they say is racially motivated.Temporary protected status was first opened to Nicaraguans in 1999 after the devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch, and extended for years afterward. As part of its decision to withdraw the protections, homeland security officials concluded that conditions are now safe enough in Nicaragua for the immigrants to return.The State Department report, however, found that clashes in Nicaragua that began last April between the police and protesters have so far killed 325 people and injured 2,000 more. Hundreds have been illegally detained and tortured, and more than 52,000 exiled, the report found. Some of those who were detained were raped by government officials; lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender as well as indigenous people were attacked.“Human rights deteriorated markedly during the year,” the report on Nicaragua concluded.The disparity between the two agencies’ assessments of South Sudan is slightly blurrier.This past week, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, approved a limited extension for immigrants from South Sudan, allowing those who were already in the United States before January 2016 to remain for another 18 months. It was the second time since temporary protected status, commonly referred to as T.P.S., was granted to South Sudan in 2011 that the United States limited its extension to only some of the immigrants. (The first, more limited extension of the temporary protections was granted to the country in 2017.)Ms. Nielsen “determined the ongoing armed conflict and extraordinary and temporary conditions that support South Sudan’s current designation for T.P.S. continue to exist,” the Department of Homeland Security said in a statement.But the protections did not extend to those from South Sudan who came to the United States after January 2016. Warring factions in South Sudan reached what the United Nations has described as a fragile peace agreement in 2018, after five years of ethnic violence in South Sudan.That has infuriated pro-immigration advocates who said hundreds of immigrants who had hoped to win temporary legal residency, and are already in the United States, now face imminent deportation to South Sudan.“While the warring parties were able to come to a peace agreement, many people are still being displaced from their homes due to fighting and insecurity and there is substantial work to be done to address the longtime suffering of the South Sudanese people,” said Martin Omukuba, who oversees South Sudan policy at the International Rescue Committee, a humanitarian aid group.The State Department described a range of atrocities in South Sudan throughout 2018 — many at the hands of government officials or security forces.They included “rape and gang rape employed as a weapon of war, arbitrary detention and torture, enforced disappearances, explosive remnants of war, forced displacement, the mass destruction of homes and personal property, widespread looting, and use of child soldiers,” the department’s report found.At least 382,000 people have been killed in the conflict in South Sudan, according to the report, which cited figures from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.There is a history of tension between the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security over ending or otherwise limiting temporary protected status for immigrants.In a 2017 email exchange obtained by the A.C.L.U., a senior diplomat raised concerns over how homeland security officials would announce the end of the protections for immigrants from Sudan.The diplomat, Paul Sutphin, then a senior adviser for the State Department focusing on Sudan and South Sudan, wrote that language about the policy that was being prepared for publication in the Federal Register might encourage “the Sudanese government to take actions that could exacerbate the ongoing armed conflicts in South Sudan.”Mr. Sutphin said the Sudanese government could view the language as a “green light” to force displaced people to “deadly conflict-affected areas” and pushed homeland security officials to make clear that there was still an internal conflict in South Sudan.Asked for comment, Mr. Sutphin said in an email, “State and D.H.S. did not agree on whether the situation on the ground in Sudan merited ending T.P.S.”In a subsequent email, another State Department official said diplomats were caught off guard by the Department of Homeland Security’s announcement in September 2017 that it would end temporary protected status for immigrants from Sudan.The State Department report released last week found that in Sudan last year, “human rights issues included unlawful or arbitrary killings, forced disappearance, torture and arbitrary detention.”AdvertisementIt has long been an open secret that some farms survive by relying on an undocumented labor force. Now, tough immigration enforcement has caused a crisis.Eladio Beltran, 32, and two of his four children, Hady, 12, and Nisi, 10, stand outside their home in upstate New York. Mr. Beltran, originally from Mexico, has worked on farms in the United States for over a decade.CreditCreditLibby March for The New York TimesSupported byBy Christina Goldbaum[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]HOMER, N.Y. — The fears weigh on Mike McMahon: If one of his undocumented workers gets a traffic ticket, it could prompt an immigration audit of his entire farm. If another gets detained by immigration agents at a roadside checkpoint or in a supermarket parking lot, the rest may flee. And if his undocumented work force disappears overnight, there is no one to replace them.“It keeps me up at night,” said Mr. McMahon, who owns a dairy farm south of Syracuse. “There are people out there who just say, ‘Send them all back and build a wall.’ But they would be facing empty shelves in the grocery store if that were to happen.”It has long been an open secret in upstate New York that the dairy industry has been able to survive only by relying on undocumented immigrants for its work force. Now, this region has become a national focal point in the debate over President Trump’s crackdown on undocumented immigrants and their role in agriculture.The tensions have escalated to such a degree over the last year that Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo described federal agents as reckless, accusing Immigration and Customs Enforcement of violating the rights of farmers in pursuing undocumented immigrants.Mr. Cuomo was responding to a high-profile raid on a dairy farm, during which a farmer was briefly handcuffed after protesting that ICE agents were mistreating one of his workers. The farmer claimed ICE did not have a warrant to enter his farm.Mr. Cuomo is a Democrat, but Republicans who represent upstate New York in Congress have also come to the defense of the farmers.The pressures here reflect broader challenges facing farmers across the country who rely on undocumented workers. The farmers are struggling with a shrinking labor pool as fewer migrants cross illegally into the country and migrants who are long-term residents become too old for field work.This year the labor shortage has been compounded by Mr. Trump’s trade war and extreme weather, forcing some small farmers to switch to higher-value crops, to reduce their acreage and to consider selling their farms.If anything, the situation in upstate New York is more difficult.Smaller dairy farmers here have been some of the hardest hit by tougher immigration enforcement because their workers are subject to scrutiny from both ICE and the border patrol, which is allowed to operate within 100 miles of the border — in this case, with Canada.Agriculture contributes an estimated $37 billion to New York’s economy and is responsible for nearly 200,000 jobs.“We are seeing that the immigration enforcement is having a tremendous enforcement impact on farm workers, on farms,” said Mary Jo Dudley, director of the Cornell Farmworker Program. “For many farmers, there’s no alternative labor force.”To search private property like a farm, ICE needs a warrant that shows reason to believe a particular undocumented immigrant is living or working there. But if undocumented workers leave the farm to go to a grocery store, they can be approached by ICE agents in a parking lot or a roadside checkpoint, detained and deported.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]Advocates for undocumented immigrants said ICE agents target immigrants indiscriminately in these public spaces. But ICE disputes those claims.“ICE continues to focus its limited resources first and foremost on those who pose the greatest threat to public safety,” said an ICE spokesman, Khaalid Walls. “ICE only conducts targeted immigration enforcement. The agency does not conduct raids or sweeps that target aliens indiscriminately.”Supporters of stricter immigration policies said they were sympathetic to the plight of small farms. But they pointed out that the farms’ reliance on inexpensive, undocumented labor would handicap American agriculture in the long term.They argue that while immigration crackdowns could force farms to consolidate and mechanize and may be hard for individual farmers, it would make the industry more competitive globally.“The more productive policy response would be subsidized loans to invest in machinery for small-scale farmers, rather than revising how we import foreign workers and perpetuating the labor-intensive old-fashioned way of doing business,” said Mark Krikorian, executive director for the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank that favors restricting immigration.Dairy farmers face particular challenges because without American workers, they have no alternative to migrant labor. The government program that brings in legal temporary workers does so only for seasonal workers and dairy farming is a year-round activity.In Washington, lawmakers representing dairy-heavy districts have tried to reform the legal foreign workers program to include year-round dairy workers.But so far, efforts have fallen short. These lawmakers are caught between staunch conservatives who consider any reprieve a form of amnesty and Democrats who want more comprehensive immigration reform, which would also address the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, and immigrants with Temporary Protected Status.“We’ll have detractors on both sides,” said Representative Chris Collins, a Republican in western New York.Still, Mr. Collins said, a solution is urgently required to keep dairy farms afloat while the political impasse over a comprehensive immigration package drags on. “There’s not a single person representing dairy that doesn’t understand it’s a crisis, a true crisis,” he said.He plans to introduce legislation in the coming weeks that would offer temporary employment authorization to year-round farmworkers on dairies as a stopgap measure.Deportations have been a concern for New York’s farmers and farm workers since the early 2000s, when the sudden enforcement of immigration laws led to a rash of immigration enforcement activities on farms across the state. After the Obama administration narrowed the pool of immigrants ICE prioritized for deportation, some sense of security returned to upstate farming communities, which was shattered when Mr. Trump took office.“We had heard things were starting to get bad, some wineries in the area and quite a few in the Finger Lakes started losing workers. It was almost immediately after Trump took office that ICE started snagging people,” said Kelly Raby, a vineyard owner in Lewiston.Last fall, Victor Pacheco, the foreman on Ms. Raby’s family farm for 23 years, was detained by ICE agents and deported to Mexico.Ms. Raby has struggled to find a foreman skilled enough to manage her vineyard, where the grapevines are now dusted in a light coat of snow and in need of winter pruning. This has left her uncertain about the future of their family farm and the president she helped vote into office.“I still agree with Trump in a lot of ways, but I’m more on the fence about him now,” Ms. Raby said. “I don’t want to lose the immigrants who are working here and growing our food.”Over the last 50 years, American farms have relied on two labor forces: migrants who settled in the United States during the migration wave of the 1960s and 1970s; and those who stayed temporarily, illegally crossing the border for each harvest season. But today, permanent migrants who settled are reaching their 60s, fewer and fewer seasonal migrants are coming to the United States, and enforcement operations are driving the few migrants left out of the state.“Today you go to work and you don’t know if you’ll come back home and be with your family again,” said Eladio Beltran, an immigrant from Mexico who works in an apple orchard in Albion. He is currently awaiting deportation proceedings after being pulled over by state troopers and taken into ICE custody.“Being undocumented and living in New York State is not worth it anymore,” he said.For dairy farmers like Mr. McMahon, if even one of his migrant workers leaves, the absence has a drastic effect on his 2,300-acre farm operation. He depends on having enough workers for round-the-clock shifts, seven days a week. They keep this schedule year-round, he said, to ensure his roughly 800 cows are milked three times a day, their calves are fed, and all cows are medically cared for.“What we really want is some kind of method of getting foreign workers legally,” Mr. McMahon said from his farm in Homer, about 30 miles south of Syracuse.Owners of apple orchards and vineyards, who can afford to, have also started turning to the H-2A program, the legal foreign worker program that brings agricultural labor to the United States for temporary work.Critics of the program argue that workers are often exploited by employers and risk deportation if they complain about mistreatment. Farmers complain that it is costly, complicated and laden with bureaucracy.“We didn’t really have a choice but to use to H-2A,” said Mark Nicholson of Red Jacket Orchards, which switched to using the program last year. “When the system works, it answers one of our biggest challenges to staying in business — and that’s having a reliable source of skilled farm labor. But when it doesn’t work, it dooms us to the same risk as before.”If the issue of undocumented farm workers is left unaddressed, there will be an impact across the supply chain. “There will be long-term consequences that not only our farms will deal with, but consumers will have to deal with as well,” said Steve Ammerman, the senior associate director of public policy at the New York Farm Bureau.Without a legal alternative to informal migrant labor, the competition between dairy farms to retain migrant workers is so fierce that farm owners, once notorious for underpaying and mistreating workers, are now improving working conditions and wages to entice employees to stay on their farms, workers said.Victor Cortez is an immigrant who has worked on a dairy farm in western New York for 18 years. A few years ago, farm owners “wouldn’t let us leave the farm,” he said, adding, “They wouldn’t pay us as much as they promised they would.”“But the good thing about it now,” he said, “is that we get paid more and this farmer is good to me.”Follow Christina Goldbaum on Twitter: @cegoldbaumOpinionShikha DalmiaAdvertisement