AdvertisementSupported byEconomic ViewBy Justin WolfersWhen President Trump delivered his State of the Union address on Tuesday, he could quite justifiably say that the state of the economy was good.Unemployment is low, inflation is muted and growth has continued unabated for nearly 10 years. As a college professor, I’m often drawn to giving letter grades, and would give the United States economy an A-, with the potential for a better grade if the economic gains had been distributed more evenly.But Mr. Trump controls economic policy, not the economy, and so a fairer report card would also assess his actual policies.To provide a nonpartisan appraisal, I’ve reviewed surveys of about 50 leading economists — liberals and conservatives — run by the University of Chicago. What is startling is that the economists are nearly unanimous in concluding that Mr. Trump’s policies are destructive. That is why many economists are uneasy about his presidency, even though the economy earns solid grades.Mr. Trump’s protectionist impulses place him squarely at odds with the economic wisdom that tariffs are harmful. Worse, by imposing tariffs on goods  like aluminum and steel Mr. Trump’s trade policy has also damaged the competitiveness of American manufacturers. None of the economists taking part in the surveys agreed with the claim that these tariffs would “improve Americans’ welfare,” and all of them said global supply chains had made these tariffs more costly than they would have been in the past.The United States started a trade war with China and China quickly retaliated, raising tariffs on American-made goods. Mr. Trump also created needless uncertainty with his threat to rip up the North American Free Trade Agreement that binds the United States, Canada and Mexico. The threat yielded a substitute deal that market economists believe will do little more than replicate the previous one, and it is unclear that Congress will pass it.Criticism of Mr. Trump’s protectionist instincts is widespread. When he said on Twitter that he was “Tariff Man,” financial markets tanked. An analysis conducted by the president’s own Council of Economic Advisers has reportedly concluded that his tariffs will reduce economic growth. Even by Mr. Trump’s own preferred metric, the balance of trade, his policy has failed: The trade deficit has risen to a 10-year high.The logic of fiscal policy is straightforward: In good times, the government should spend less, so that in bad times it can afford to spend more and tax less, helping to support an ailing economy. When private-sector demand falls, government picks up the slack.On this score, Mr. Trump’s fiscal policy is a colossal failure. His signature achievement is a $1.5 trillion tax cut that provided stimulus when, arguably, it was least needed. As a result, the budget deficit is atypically high for a healthy economy, and rising government debt will make it hard for fiscal policy to provide a boost when the next downturn hits.Mr. Trump might argue that the point of the tax cut wasn’t to provide a short-term stimulus, but rather to promote long-term economic growth. However, economists say that it will fail to do that, too. In a survey before the bill was passed, all but one expert said the tax cut wouldn’t lead gross domestic product “to be substantially higher a decade from now.” Darrell Duffie, the lone dissenter, said it would boost growth, but he added that “whether the overall tax plan is distributionally fair is another matter.”The problem, according to Daron Acemoglu, a prominent macroeconomist, is that while “simplification of the tax code could be beneficial,” that effect would most likely be “more than offset by its highly regressive nature.” Recent data support this pessimism, as the much-promised investment boom the tax cut was supposed to deliver appears not to have materialized.It is worth noting that the one part of Mr. Trump’s platform that received a strong endorsement from economists — his promise of infrastructure spending — has languished, despite the possibility of bipartisan support.For a president, monetary policy should be simple: Appoint good people, and let the Federal Reserve do its job. Mr. Trump has got half of this right. Jerome Powell, his pick for Fed chairman, has so far proven to be adept. In a recent survey, 43 percent of economists gave Mr. Powell’s leadership an A, and 51 percent gave him a B (with the remaining 6 percent giving him a C). Mr. Trump’s other Fed appointments have been mainstream, yielding a cast of policymakers that Jeb Bush might have appointed had he been elected president.But Mr. Trump has dragged down his grade in this category by meddling in ways that have needlessly complicated the Fed’s job. Most industrialized countries, including the United States, have generally insulated monetary policy from political pressure, believing that such independence helps policymakers deliver low and stable inflation. Yet Mr. Trump has repeatedly criticized Mr. Powell for not setting interest rates lower, and has reportedly raised the possibility of firing him. The president is playing a self-defeating game, because he is making it harder for Mr. Powell to deliver low rates without appearing to have been bullied by Mr. Trump.Mr. Trump isn’t just pushing against one or two threads of economic consensus. Instead, his program is an almost complete repudiation of the orthodoxies endorsed by Democratic and Republican economists.Put the pieces together, and all of this presents a puzzle: If economic policy is so bad, why is the economy doing so well?Perhaps it reflects good luck rather than good judgment. Mr. Trump’s luck was to inherit an economy that had been on a steadily improving glide path since around 2010. Charting nearly any economic statistic shows that today’s economic strength represents a continuation of that trend.Even if Mr. Trump doesn’t deserve credit for this trajectory, he should get some credit for not knocking the economy off this path. Unless, of course, the real explanation is that the president doesn’t have much effect on economic outcomes.The more frightening explanation is that the downside of Mr. Trump’s policies are yet to become evident. The chaos of his administration’s policy process has created uncertainty and probably scared off some investors, although their absence is difficult to measure. In addition, Mr. Trump’s unfunded tax cuts are creating a debt that future generations will have to repay. And by undermining the Fed’s independence, he may have made it less effective at fighting inflation.That’s not all.Cutting regulations in the financial sector may help big banks today, but it could increase the chances of future financial crises. Eliminating environmental regulations has probably improved results for some businesses while speeding climate change. And while impeding immigration may have reduced competition for jobs, many economists worry that in the longer run, reducing the number of immigrants will lead to less innovation and growth.Of course, I should admit a final possibility: Perhaps Mr. Trump has got it right, and the economists have gotten it all wrong. As a card-carrying economist, I don’t believe this, but it seems that, in equal measure, Mr. Trump doesn’t believe what economists say, either.Justin Wolfers is a professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan. Follow him on Twitter: @justinwolfers.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIn California, where home prices are pushing people farther from their jobs, rising traffic is creating more pollution.By Scott Wiener and Daniel KammenSenator Wiener is the chairman of the California Senate’s Housing Committee. Dr. Kammen is a professor of energy at the University of California, Berkeley.California has long been seen as a leader on climate change. The state’s history of aggressive action to reduce air pollution, accelerate the use of renewable energy and speed the transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy has inspired governments around the world to set more ambitious climate goals.But there is trouble on the horizon, and California’s climate leadership is at risk.Across most of the state’s economy, greenhouse gas emissions have been trending steadily down. But ballooning car traffic on city streets and freeways is negating much of that progress. In California, about 40 percent of greenhouse gas emissions are from transportation, and they are increasing. In some California counties, two-thirds of emissions are from vehicles.In November, the California Air Resources Board released an update on efforts to reduce pollution from transportation. The numbers were alarming. Despite headlines about California’s push for more electric vehicles, pollution from cars is still climbing. “With emissions from the transportation sector continuing to rise, California will not achieve the necessary greenhouse gas emissions reductions to meet mandates for 2030,” the board warned.The solution? “Significant changes to how communities and transportation systems are planned, funded and built,” the board said.Put more directly, in order to solve the climate crisis, we have to solve the housing crisis.Numerous climate researchers have a similar conclusion. In an assessment of the carbon footprint of 700 California cities, experts with the Renewable and Appropriate Energy Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley, including one of us (Dr. Kammen), found that, for most coastal California cities, “infill” housing — that is, housing built in urban areas, near transit, jobs and services — can reduce greenhouse gas pollution more effectively than any other option.Other research has confirmed this work, and bolstered the case for using denser housing and public transportation as weapons against climate change.The relationship between housing and transportation emissions is not complicated. The housing crisis in our cities and job centers — California is short 3.5 million homes, according to a report by the McKinsey Global Institute — is forcing more workers to “drive till they qualify,” the term used by real estate agents for what a growing number of Californians have to do to find housing they can afford. As cities that are job centers make it hard or impossible to build housing — for example, through de facto bans on apartment buildings in areas zoned for single-family homes — people who are priced out move further away, resulting in sprawl that covers up farmland and open space, clogs freeways and increases greenhouse gas emissions.Of the 100 largest U.S. metropolitan areas, these are the 20 with the greatest proportion of residents working full-time who spend 90 minutes or more getting to their jobs. (Nationally, 72 percent of these super-commuters drive.) Eight of these areas are in California; the San Francisco area has seen the most growth in ultra-commuters since 2005.PERCENTAGE OF RESIDENTSWORKING FULL-TIME WHO ARESUPER-COMMUTERSCHANGE IN NUMBER OF SUPER-COMMUTERS,2005-17Stockton-Lodi, Calif.11%+65%Modesto, Calif.9+80Riverside-San Bern., Calif.8+34New York-Newark-Jersey City7+34Bridgeport-Stamford, Conn.7+42San Francisco-Oakland5+170Washington-Arlington-Alexandria5+65Baltimore-Columbia-Towson5+38Allentown-Bethlehem, Pa.-N.J.4+8Boston-Cambridge-Newton4+69Sacramento-Roseville4+64Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Roswell3+22Chicago-Naperville-Elgin3–6Los Angeles-Long Beach3+32Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue3+114Oxnard-Thousand Oaks, Calif.3+7Philadelphia-Camden-Wilmington3+44Bakersfield, Calif.3+43PERCENTAGE OF RESIDENTS WORKING FULL-TIMEWHO ARE SUPER-COMMUTERSCHANGE IN NUMBER OF SUPER-COMMUTERS,2005-1711%+65%Stockton-Lodi, Calif.9+80Modesto, Calif.8+34Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario, Calif.7+34New York-Newark-Jersey City7+42Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk, Conn.5+170San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward5+65Washington-Arlington-Alexandria5+38Baltimore-Columbia-Towson4+8Allentown-Bethlehem-Easton, Pa.-N.J.4+69Boston-Cambridge-Newton4+64Sacramento-Roseville3+22Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Roswell3–6Chicago-Naperville-Elgin3+32Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim3+114Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue3+7Oxnard-Thousand Oaks-Ventura, Calif.3+44Philadelphia-Camden-Wilmington3+43Bakersfield, Calif.By The New York Times | Source: Apartment ListThe results are anything but equitable. By making housing shockingly expensive near jobs and transit, cities force low-income and working-class people to live far away from where they work. Our communities lose their economic diversity, while the abundant opportunities, services and neighborhood amenities of cities are walled off to all but the very wealthy.Low-density, single-family-home zoning is effectively a ban on economically diverse communities. Californians need more and better alternatives to cars for transportation, and easier access to walkable communities and affordable housing near mass transit. Of course, we also have to accelerate the electrification of our vehicles, another way to reduce pollution from cars. But, as the air resources board has found, electrification alone cannot happen fast enough to solve the problem, and we need to reduce the number of miles people drive by 25 percent. In his first major speech since taking office, Gov. Gavin Newsom placed solving the housing crisis at the top of his agenda. Under his proposed budget, cities that don’t build enough housing will lose state transportation funding. And this legislative session, a bipartisan coalition of California legislators is supporting the More Homes Act, which is sponsored by one of us (Senator Wiener). The bill would override local restrictive zoning by legalizing small to midsize apartment buildings (up to five stories) near job centers and public transportation and set minimum affordability standards for some of those units. The legislation would also help existing renters keep their homes in areas that qualify for new housing. The measures are intended to stem the growth of super-commuters — workers who are priced out of areas near their jobs and forced to drive long distances to get to work.Cities across the United States face issues similar to those in California, too many of which have largely closed the doors to new residents — only to force them into similar patterns of crushing commutes and worsening pollution.Measures like the More Homes Act offer a road map to cities and states that want to address these issues head-on. In fact, we’d argue that surging interest in urban housing and transportation issues, and the rise of the grass roots Yes in My Back Yard movement that’s behind it, is perhaps the most hopeful development in the American climate movement in recent years.Unlike many of our climate policy challenges, housing and transit are largely controlled by cities and states. If we can build more momentum for more homes near transit and jobs, we can continue to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in California and around the country, and make sure our progress continues apace.Scott Wiener, a Democrat, represents San Francisco in the California Senate, where he is chairman of the Housing Committee. Daniel Kammen is a professor is a professor and chairman of the Energy and Resources Group at the University of California, Berkeley.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWithdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal has paid dividends.By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistIt’s been nearly a year since Donald Trump made the decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal, to loud cries that it would bring nothing but woe to the United States and our interests in the Middle East.So far, the result has been closer to the opposite.That much was further made clear thanks to excellent reporting this week by The Times’s Ben Hubbard. “Iran’s financial crisis, exacerbated by American sanctions,” he writes from Lebanon, “appears to be undermining its support for militant groups and political allies who bolster Iranian influence in Iraq, Syria, Lebanon and elsewhere.” Well, heavens to Betsy. When the Obama administration negotiated the nuclear deal, the president acknowledged that sanctions relief for Tehran would inevitably mean more money for groups like Hezbollah. But he also insisted it wouldn’t make much of a difference in terms of Iran’s capacity to make mischief in the Middle East.Hubbard’s reporting suggests otherwise. Iran can no longer finance civilian projects or credit lines in Syria. Hezbollah fighters and Palestinian militants aren’t being paid, and their families are losing subsidized housing. Even Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah has complained publicly about the effects of U.S. sanctions.Nor are those the only benefits of withdrawal. The U.S. is no longer looking the other way at Hezbollah’s criminal enterprises, including drug smuggling and money laundering, the way it did during the Obama administration in order to engage Iran diplomatically. Iran’s protest movement, quashed in 2009, has shown signs of renewed life, not least because of public fury that the regime spends money on foreign adventures while economic conditions worsen at home. Most importantly, Iran has not used the U.S. withdrawal from the deal to restart its nuclear programs, despite its threats to do so. Part of this has to do with Tehran’s belief that it can wait Trump out, especially since Democrats like Elizabeth Warren and Kamala Harris have promised to re-enter the deal if elected. But it also suggests an edge of fear in Tehran’s calculations. The U.S. can still impose a great deal more pain on the Islamic Republic if it chooses to do so.How so? Mark Dubowitz of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies told me earlier this week that the sanctions needle now stands at around a 6. With a nod to Spin̈al Tap’s Nigel Tufnel, he says, “We need to get to 11.” Iran still exports about a million barrels of oil a day; the administration could bring it to zero by refusing to hand out sanctions waivers. The State Department could also designate the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps as a foreign terrorist organization, on a par with Al Qaeda or the Islamic State. Such a designation, Dubowitz says, would “make the entire Iranian economy radioactive” to foreign investment, since the I.R.G.C. is heavily involved in scores of Iranian businesses.Even here Dubowitz is merely warming to his theme. Freeze Iran’s foreign exchange reserves? Doable. Expose the immense wealth of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and sanction the companies he and other leading regime figures control? Ditto. Unleash lawsuits against companies still doing business with Iran to recover billions of dollars in outstanding terrorism judgments against the country? That, too.The point isn’t to punish Iran for punishment’s sake. It’s to create leverage for a better nuclear deal. Last May, Mike Pompeo set a dozen parameters for an agreement, including “unqualified access” to U.N. nuclear inspectors, permanent cessation of uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing, the end of Iran’s ballistic-missile program, withdrawal of its forces from Syria, and the release of U.S. nationals held in its prisons. Pompeo’s demands have been alternatively dismissed as silly or reckless by most of Washington’s foreign policy establishment. But it says something about the debasement of diplomatic expectations — both of what we have a right to demand and what we think we can achieve — that any of it should be controversial.Non-nuclear states that sponsor terrorism and subscribe to millenarian ideologies should never have access to any part of the nuclear fuel cycle, ever. Any U.S. administration that abdicates the responsibility to do everything it can to prevent such access effectively renounces America’s status as a superpower as well.Iran’s G.D.P. is roughly equivalent to that of the greater Boston area, with 17 times the population. The regime may be a force to be reckoned with in the Middle East. But it is hardly a giant on the world stage, immune to any form of economic pressure. The Trump administration has succeeded in dramatically raising the costs to Iran for its sinister behavior, at no cost to the United States or our allies. That’s the definition of a foreign-policy achievement. It’s time to move the needle up again. The longer Hezbollah fighters go unpaid, or the Assad regime unaided, the better off the people of the Middle East will be.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders discuss the resignation of Kirstjen Nielsen and President Trump’s recent comments about cracking down on immigration.To the Editor:Re “Kirstjen Nielsen Enforced Cruelty at the Border. Her Replacement Could Be Worse” (editorial, nytimes.com, April 7):Nancy Pelosi said of Kirstjen Nielsen’s departure as homeland security secretary, “It is deeply alarming that the Trump administration official who put children in cages is reportedly resigning because she is not extreme enough for the White House’s liking.” Madam Speaker paints this entire nightmare in a few brief descriptive strokes. This pretty much sums up the entire Trump immigration policy. What more really needs to be said?Marge KellerChicagoTo the Editor:Re “Stoking Anti-Semitism Fears, Trump Courts Jews” (news article, April 7):In your report on President Trump’s speech to the Republican Jewish Coalition, you quote him saying of asylum seekers: “You can’t come in. Our country is full. What can we do? We can’t handle any more.” Apparently the speech was received with “raucous applause and cheers.” Really? Is memory so short that people have forgotten the St. Louis, a ship carrying more than 900 Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany that was turned away?John WiseGuerneville, Calif.To the Editor:In “Mr. Trump’s Terrible Border ‘Solutions’” (editorial, April 2), you claim that the Trump administration is “shooting America in the foot” by threatening to close the border with Mexico (now delayed) and cut off aid to Central American countries. Both of my parents were immigrants and waited years for citizenship. They did not just show up at the border and seek asylum. Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement lack the resources to protect our borders. Subsidies to El Salvador have not helped with the problem of illegal immigration. Even President Barack Obama’s homeland security secretary, Jeh Johnson, acknowledges that there is a crisis on our border.We need to deal with this problem. Why should we be giving aid to countries that have no strategic importance to us?We should instead redirect funds from those countries to our border security agencies. A wall is not a solution, but neither is giving money to Central American countries. Timothy ZranovEnglewood, Colo.To the Editor:Re “A Grand Compromise on Immigration,” by Peter King and Tom Suozzi (Op-Ed, March 25): Representatives King and Suozzi are to be commended for at least proposing a bipartisan solution to immigration reform. Opening a dialogue is the first step toward this solution. But their proposed $2,000 fee — which is the linchpin for funding their initiative — seems to bring us back to the issue of income inequality. The requirement that an undocumented person pay a $2,000 fee “to qualify for protection” appears to exclude those with fragile financial resources who simply cannot afford the fee. Like the poll tax, this fee requirement is not consistent with America’s democratic principles. It should not be part of legislation.Congress has a moral obligation to appropriate the necessary funds for administrative costs, border security and Central American aid without having to split the affected population into the haves and have-nots.Robert KleinNew YorkAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFRANKFURT — The European Central Bank kept its policy unchanged as expected on Wednesday, maintaining interest rates at record lows and keeping its guidance for steady interest rates this year despite a sharp slowdown in economic growth.With the economy and inflation both slowing, the ECB has already backtracked on its plans to tighten policy this year, unveiling instead even more stimulus to prop up an export-focused economy now struggling amid a global slowdown in trade.But having unveiled fresh measures just last month, the ECB can afford to wait before contemplating any further steps, keeping its last remaining policy powder dry in case the growth downturn becomes more severe than now feared."The Governing Council now expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at their present levels at least through the end of 2019, and in any case for as long as necessary," the ECB said in a statement, reaffirming its interest rate guidance. While this policy is out of sync with market expectations, which put the first hike in 2021, policymakers have dismissed the significance of the disconnect, arguing that economic conditions would impact the eventual move and market prices simply reflect the changing outlook.Attention now turns to ECB President Mario Draghi's 1230 GMT news conference, at which he is likely to say that risks to growth remain on the downside and the bank remains ready to act with all available instruments. Investors will also look to see if Draghi elaborates on his recent comments that the ECB would study whether negative rates are starting to have unintended side effects. With Wednesday's decision, the ECB's rate on bank overnight deposits, which is currently its primary interest rate tool, remains at -0.40 percent.The main refinancing rate, which determines the cost of credit in the economy, remained unchanged at 0.00 percent while the rate on the marginal lending facility -- the emergency overnight borrowing rate for banks -- remains at 0.25 percent. (Reporting by Balazs Koranyi)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSAN DIEGO — A Trump administration regulation set to go into effect Friday bars transgender people from the military unless they "correct those deficiencies," a description the American Medical Association said Thursday is unfair and defies science.  The AMA told The Associated Press on Thursday the policy and its wording mischaracterizes transgender people as having a "deficiency." It said it also objects to the Defense Department classifying the need to transition to another gender among "administratively disqualifying conditions" that include those the Pentagon has labeled as "congenital or developmental defects."The new regulation strips transgender troops of rights they only recently secured under the Obama administration to serve openly and receive care if they choose to transition to another gender.The Defense Department said its use of the words "deficiencies" is military lingo for when an individual fails to meet standards to maintain a lethal force. It is not a reference to gender dysphoria, a condition of extreme distress from not identifying with one's biological gender, Lt. Col. Carla Gleason said.The department says transgender people can serve if they remain in their biological sex."The only thing deficient is any medical science behind this decision," American Medical Association President Dr. Barbara L. McAneny said.Decorated Army helicopter pilot Lindsey Muller was a plaintiff in one of four lawsuits that tried to block the policy from taking effect. But the final legal injunction was lifted in March, though new legal challenges are expected.Muller said she and other transgender troops feel demoralized."Under our ethical standards, we can't say anything derogatory against the administration, while we are being presented in a disparaging and derogatory light," said Muller, 37, who is based in Fort Carson, Colorado.Troops like Muller, who began openly identifying as a woman in 2016, are worried they will be discharged. The administration says it will not boot current service members who transitioned before the Pentagon issued its directive, though the government has also said it retains the right to eliminate that protection.Muller said the policy will cost the armed forces far more in terms of losing experienced personnel like herself and training replacements than any costs associated with specialized health care for trans servicemembers. She plans to retire from the military next year after serving 20 years.Under the new policy, a service member can be discharged based on a diagnosis of gender dysphoria if he or she is "unable or unwilling to adhere to all applicable standards, including the standards associated with his or her biological sex, or seeks transition to another gender."It said the discharge should come after an individual "has been formally counseled on his or her failure to adhere to such standards and has been given an opportunity to correct those deficiencies."The policy calls for troops diagnosed with gender dysphoria to be medically evaluated before discharging them to see if they qualify as having a disability. Otherwise gender dysphoria can be considered a "condition that interferes with military service" like sleep walking, bed wetting, motion sickness, and personality disorders."They can dress it up in whatever words they want, but when you carefully look at this it's total disrespect for these human beings by saying a core piece of them is not acceptable," former acting U.S. Army Surgeon General Gale Pollock said.Pollock signed a statement with three former U.S. surgeons general and two former military surgeons general, saying they are "troubled by the Defense Department's characterization of the need to undergo gender transition as a 'deficiency,' and by the addition of gender dysphoria to official lists of 'congenital or developmental defects' that include bed-wetting and 'disturbances of perception, thinking, emotional control, or behavior.'"An estimated 14,700 troops identify as transgender.Military chiefs testified before Congress last year that they found no problems with transgender troops on morale or unit cohesion. Many have received medals since the armed forces welcomed them in 2016.Transgender troops say the regulation mirrors the "don't ask, don't tell" policy that prohibited gay men and women from serving openly in the armed forces before Congress repealed it in 2010._____Crary reported from New York.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Edward WongWASHINGTON — The Trump administration will withhold funding from foreign nongovernmental organizations that give money to foreign groups that perform abortions, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Tuesday.In an expansion of the administration’s anti-abortion policies, Mr. Pompeo also said the government was “fully enforcing” a law that prohibits groups from using United States aid to lobby on abortion issues.“We will enforce a strict prohibition on backdoor funding schemes and end-runs around our policy,” Mr. Pompeo said. “American taxpayer dollars will not be used to underwrite abortions.”The move builds on a 2017 announcement by the Trump administration that it was reinstating and expanding the so-called Mexico City policy. The executive action dating to 1984 — and described by critics as the “global gag rule” — requires foreign nongovernmental organizations to refuse to perform abortions in exchange for receiving American funding.Democratic presidents, including Barack Obama, have issued memorandums through the years rescinding the rule, while Republican presidents have reinstated it; it has been in effect 19 of the last 34 years.Conservatives, Catholics and evangelical Christians who have long promoted anti-abortion policies and make up a core part of Mr. Trump’s voter base are especially outspoken on the issue. Mr. Pompeo is an evangelical Christian, as is Vice President Mike Pence.Politicians who have opposed the policies immediately criticized Mr. Pompeo’s announcement.“There is no end to the depths of the Trump administration’s cruelty,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, said on Twitter. “Millions of women around the world rely on U.S.-funded health assistance — and millions more will be arbitrarily left without care due to this shameful decision by @SecPompeo.”Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of New York and chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, helped introduce legislation last month to reverse and prohibit the 2017 ban imposed by Mr. Trump. Some Republicans also support the proposal.“Once again the Trump administration has chosen ideology over sound policy,” Ms. Lowey said in a statement. “This morning’s announcement by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo that the global gag rule will be further expanded is another slap in the face to women around the world.”In his announcement, Mr. Pompeo said American officials had become aware that a group under the Organization of American States had engaged in abortion rights advocacy. As a result, the State Department will now stipulate in assistance agreements that the diplomatic body must promise no American funds will be used to lobby for or against abortion.The United States would reduce funding to the organization as punishment, Mr. Pompeo added.“The institutions of the O.A.S. should be focused on addressing crises in Cuba, Nicaragua and in Venezuela, not on advancing the pro-abortion cause,” he said.There was no immediate response from the organization.A reporter pointed out to Mr. Pompeo that many groups that work on global health care issues argue that the policy leads to more pregnancies among rural women. Researchers have found that funding cuts affect groups that promote contraception use and other pregnancy prevention methods.“They’re just wrong,” Mr. Pompeo said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's political parties are campaigning in a general election set for May 18, with the fight focused on tax cuts, climate change and social programmes.Below are party policies taken mainly from campaign programmes and pre-election announcements:TAX CUTSRuling Liberal-National coalition:* Proposed total tax cuts of A$158 billion ($112.5 billion) over the period to 2029/30, in addition to A$144 billion in tax cuts passed by parliament last year. Most of the new tax cuts would take effect after 2022, when the next election is due.* Most of the early personal income tax cuts would benefit low and middle-income earners. Tax rebate for middle-income earners to double in current financial year. Subsequent tax concessions would benefit wealthier Australians. * Top threshold for 19 percent tax bracket rises to A$45,000 in 2022/23 from A$41,000 currently. From 2024/25, the 32.5 percent marginal tax rate would be reduced to 30 percent, and apply to income between A$45,000 and A$200,000.Opposition Labor: * Labour has promised to match the coalition's planned tax cuts for workers earning between A$48,000-A$126,000 a year, but also pledged a bigger rebate for people earning less than A$45,000. No changes to current tax brackets.CLIMATE CHANGE* The ruling coalition and opposition Labor are committed to the Paris Accord that requires member states to reduce emissions by 26 percent from 2005 levels.* The biggest differences centre on how much electricity must be generated by renewables. The coalition has a target of 26 percent, while Labor proposes a minimum of 45 percent. Labor also says half of all new cars will be electric by 2030.* The coalition has been divided over energy policy and climate change and remains a strong backer of traditional energy sources. The tensions over energy policy were a catalyst for Malcolm Turnbull's ouster as prime minister in August.HEALTHCARE AND WELFARELiberal-National coalition:* Proposed to spend more than A$80 billion on the public healthcare system in 2019/20.* Access to cheaper medicines for cancer patients. * Proposed A$725 million investment in residential care for elderly Australians.Labor:* Promises to outspend the coalition on healthcare spending, including more than A$2 billion to expand free cancer treatment.* Proposes to increase the minimum wage, but has not given specific details. The party also pledges to raise pay for people who work on weekends and public holidays.EDUCATIONLiberal-National coalition:* The coalition promises record spending on education over the next decade.Labor:* The party pledges to outspend the government but has not given specific figures. It also plans to subsidise pre-school for children for two years.DEFENCEThe coalition and Labor have pledged to spend 2 percent of the country's gross domestic product (GDP) on defence.REFUGEES* The coalition and Labor will keep the current policy of holding refugees who arrive by boat at two remote Pacific detention facilities. * The coalition says it will reverse a law that allows doctors to recommend transfers from the Pacific centres if they are unable to get the necessary medical treatment. Labor has promised to maintain the medical transfer policy. (Reporting by Colin Packham in SYDNEY; Editing by Darren Schuettler)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The European Central Bank will keep its monetary policy as accommodative as necessary for as long as needed to reach its inflation target, French central bank governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau said on Thursday.Speaking at an event in Washington on the sidelines of the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, Villeroy de Galhau said the euro zone economy was now slowing, but would not be in recession.Referring to the last meeting of the ECB's governing council this week, he said:"We confirmed our monetary commitment that we are ready to keep policy accommodative for as much and as long as necessary to reach our inflation target."He also reiterated the ECB would study the possibility of introducing tiered deposit rates for banks to limit the negative effect the current negative rate has on banks. (Reporting By Jan Strupczewski; Editing by Francesco Canepa)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Volodymyr Zelenskiy, a 41-year-old comedian with no prior political experience, is the frontrunner to become Ukraine's next president. His team is seeking to assure investors that he will maintain economic stability, accelerate reforms and tackle corruption.The following is a selection of his policies. The information is based on Reuters interviews with Zelenskiy and his economic adviser Aivaras Abromavicius, as well as public statements from his campaign. IMF PROGRAM-Stick with Ukraine's IMF program for as long as the country needs it.-Lobby parliament to lift moratorium on the sale of farmland, another IMF-backed initiative. -No clear policy on whether to allow gas prices to rise to market levels, an important IMF demand. Zelenskiy told Reuters Ukraine's heating tariffs were still too high for many citizens. Abromavicius said: "We have had a very warm winter and a very warm spring in Europe, so gas prices have come down, so pressure to increase prices domestically might not be as serious as previously thought." -Zelenskiy would not help oligarch Ihor Kolomoisky win compensation or regain control of PrivatBank, Ukraine's largest lender, which the government wrested from Kolomoisky's control in 2016 and nationalized. FIGHTING CORRUPTION-Overhaul of law enforcement bodies.-Strip law enforcement bodies of powers to investigate economic crimes and prevent them harassing businesses.-Strip president, lawmakers and judges of legal immunity.-Change laws to enable the impeachment of a president. -Ensure honest judges are appointed to a special court to try corruption cases.-Work with international experts to reintroduce a law that criminalizes illegal enrichment by officials.ECONOMIC POLICY-Tax amnesty, allowing people to declare previously undeclared assets provided they pay a 5 percent tax on them. -Switch to taxing firms on withdrawn capital rather than profits. The IMF has been skeptical of such a plan in the past but Abromavicius said: "The IMF position is very simple. You can do whatever you want but a decline in immediate tax collection needs to be compensated with other cuts in expenditures." -Maintain independence of central bank and keep the current governor in place.DIRECT DEMOCRACY-Hold referenda on big issues, including whether Ukraine should join NATO. ENDING CONFLICT IN EASTERN UKRAINE-Invite the United States and Britain to join peace negotiations. (Reporting by Matthias Williams, Editing by Timothy Heritage)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Binyamin AppelbaumWASHINGTON — Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chairman, says he still carries the scars of the Fed’s missteps in the spring of 2013.That June, Mr. Powell, then a relatively new member of the Fed’s board, joined colleagues in urging Chairman Ben S. Bernanke to announce that the Fed finally planned to gradually reduce its economic stimulus campaign.Mr. Powell anticipated that markets might not like Mr. Bernanke’s message, but he said he was even more worried about the consequences of extending the central bank’s monthly purchases of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds. Mr. Powell said the Fed was stuck on the edge of a rooftop. “We’ve got to jump,” he told his colleagues, according to transcripts of the Fed’s 2013 meetings, which the central bank published Friday. “There is no risk-free path.”Mr. Bernanke’s comments at a news conference later that day, suggesting the economy was strong enough for the Fed to begin tapering its monthly purchases before the end of the year, triggered a minor panic in financial markets, dubbed the “taper tantrum.”Mr. Powell said earlier this month that the episode continued to exert a significant influence on his management of monetary policy.“The taper tantrum left scars on anybody who was working at the Fed at that time,” Mr. Powell said at a joint appearance in Atlanta with Mr. Bernanke and the former Fed chairwoman Janet L. Yellen.But the lesson Mr. Powell took from the episode, that the Fed should strive to be clear and predictable as it retreated from its stimulus campaign, is now itself causing angst in financial markets. Some investors argue the Fed is showing too little flexibility in reducing its bond holdings, by sticking to a plan that it announced more than a year ago.Mr. Powell, who joined the Fed’s board in May 2012, expressed doubts from the outset about the Fed’s purchases of several trillion dollars in Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, part of its broader campaign in the wake of the financial crisis to reignite economic growth by holding down borrowing costs. The Fed ultimately amassed a $4.2 trillion portfolio of United States Treasury debt and mortgage-backed securities as part of a strategy known as quantitative easing.He voted in favor of the Fed’s final round of asset purchases, known as QE3, which began in September 2012, but he told his colleagues that he did so “with a certain lack of enthusiasm.” He was particularly concerned that the Fed’s bond buying would undermine financial stability.The 2013 transcripts, which the Fed released after a standard five-year delay, show that Mr. Powell’s concerns remained strong enough at the Fed’s first meeting of the year, in January, that he argued for an end to the program in 2013, even if unemployment remained high.“I believe we should adjust our purchases downward, with a view to ending them before year-end, whether or not we see a substantial improvement in the labor market,” Mr. Powell said.During the first half of 2013, Mr. Powell and two fellow governors, Elizabeth Duke and Jeremy Stein, continued to raise their concerns with Mr. Bernanke. Mr. Powell, in particular, argued there was little evidence continued bond-buying was delivering significant economic benefits.At the Fed’s March meeting, Mr. Powell quoted an estimate that every $500 billion of bond purchases might create 200,000 jobs — “enough to move the recovery forward by about a month,” he said.On the other side of the ledger, Mr. Powell said the Fed was encouraging financial speculation by holding down interest rates and by removing safer assets from the market, pushing investors into riskier investments. “We have put in place strong incentives for risk-taking,” he cautioned colleagues at the March meeting. “We should expect that dealers and investors will take more and more risk as time passes.”Mr. Powell and the other governors were particularly concerned the Fed had set no limit on the bond purchases, instead declaring it would continue until labor market conditions improved substantially. The Fed also said that it would adjust its bond-buying in response to economic conditions. Officials conceived of the bond-buying program as similar to the Fed’s management of interest rates.In May, as the economy gained strength, Mr. Bernanke agreed to acknowledge that progress by telling Congress that the Fed might reduce its bond purchases in the coming months.At the Fed’s June meeting, Mr. Powell and his allies pressed Mr. Bernanke to reinforce the message.“It will be very important to leave the markets feeling much more certain about the Committee’s intentions,” Mr. Powell said, according to the transcripts. “It’s important that the Committee, by which I really mean the Chairman, assert strong leadership to the markets on this issue at this time.”Mr. Powell acknowledged that the Fed was facing a challenge in explaining its plans. Economic growth had repeatedly fallen short of the Fed’s expectations and millions of Americans remained out of work. Mr. Bernanke would need to explain why the Fed thought the economy needed less help.But he expressed confidence in Mr. Bernanke. “Much rests on the shoulders of the Great Communicator,” he said, referring to the chairman. Then he compared Mr. Bernanke to LeBron James.Mr. Bernanke flubbed his lines at the post-meeting news conference, leaving investors confused about the Fed’s intentions. Asset prices reacted as if the Fed was significantly reducing its stimulus plans. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury rose by more than a percentage point over the summer.The Fed finally announced it would begin to taper its bond purchases in December 2013.The market’s reaction convinced Fed officials, including Mr. Powell, that the Fed should handle its balance sheet differently from its benchmark interest rate. When the Fed began to reduce its bond holdings in 2017, it published a detailed timetable for those reductions, and it has stayed on schedule.The taper tantrum, Mr. Powell said in Atlanta, is “one of the reasons why the balance sheet is supposed to be in the background, gradual and predictable, paint drying, as opposed to an active tool.”But investors increasingly are divided on the wisdom of that approach. Some see little evidence the Fed’s plodding approach is disrupting financial markets. Others say the Fed, despite moving slowly and predictably, is still making waves.“We believe balance sheet normalization played an important role in the late 2018 market volatility,” Morgan Stanley’s economics team wrote in a research note on Friday. Just as Mr. Powell argued that the Fed’s bond-buying encouraged investors to take risks in 2013, Morgan Stanley said that the Fed’s retreat was now discouraging risk-taking.Mr. Powell and other Fed officials have said they see no evidence that the Fed’s balance sheet retreat is contributing to volatility in financial markets. At the same time, they have emphasized in recent appearances that the Fed “would not hesitate” to adjust the pace of its retreat if it reached the conclusion that changes were necessary.But the history of the taper tantrum suggests that, for Mr. Powell, that is likely to be a high bar.Follow Binyamin Appelbaum on Twitter @bcappelbaum.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin MuellerLONDON — British women forced into marriages abroad will no longer be required to repay the government for the cost of helping them escape, according to the foreign secretary, reversing a policy that touched off intense public outrage.Instead, the government will use court orders to try to recover expenses for parts of the women’s rescue, like flights home and short-term shelter, from the people who sent them abroad — often their parents. If those efforts are unsuccessful, the Foreign Office will cover the costs itself.“Our treatment of vulnerable Britons abroad should always be guided by compassion,” the foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, said in a letter on Tuesday. “So I am glad to make this policy change.”The repayment policy, which applied to women of age 18 or older, was an extension of the government’s approach to British tourists or other citizens who get in trouble abroad and need consular help returning to the United Kingdom.But charities that support survivors of forced marriages said the policy had ignored the unusually risky position those women were in. They often had to ask family members for help cobbling together the money, forcing them to turn to some of the same people who had coerced them into the marriages in the first place.Those who could not get help from relatives or friends had to sign emergency loan agreements before the British government would send them back home. They also had to forfeit their passports until the repayments were complete, and faced a 10 percent surcharge on anything they owed after six months.Under the policy, detailed in  articles in The Times of London last week, four British women were each charged roughly $900 for the government’s efforts to free them from a religious institution in Somalia where, they said, they had been chained, whipped and told they would be held until they married. The women’s families had sent them there because they thought the women were too independent.The biggest number of forced marriage cases was in Pakistan. In all, the Foreign Office helped bring home 82 survivors over 2016 and 2017. Mr. Hunt said that “only a small minority” had to sign loan agreements with the government; the rest, he said, were able to find others to pay the fees.Tom Tugendhat, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the House of Commons, wrote a letter to Mr. Hunt last week challenging the repayment policy. “Members of the Foreign Affairs Committee are deeply concerned that victims may be forced to pay for their own rescue or, worse, may be dissuaded from asking for help if they have not got the funds,” it said.Mr. Hunt said in his reply to Mr. Tugendhat that women with outstanding loans would not have to pay any more, and that the government would return any passports that had been blocked pending repayment.“Whereas the Foreign Office rightly expects that adult Britons who receive consular assistance will, in general, pay for their own travel home, victims of forced marriage may have endured particular suffering,” Mr. Hunt said in his letter.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew JacobsHappy 10 Minutes, a Chinese government campaign that encouraged schoolchildren to exercise for 10 minutes a day, would seem a laudable step toward improving public health in a nation struggling with alarming rates of childhood obesity.But the initiative and other official Chinese efforts that emphasized exercise as the best way to lose weight were notable for what they didn’t mention: the importance of cutting back on the calorie-laden junk foods and sugary beverages that have become ubiquitous in the world’s second largest economy.China’s fitness-is-best message, as it happens, has largely been the handiwork of Coca-Cola and other Western food and beverage giants, according to a pair of new studies that document how those companies have helped shape decades of Chinese science and public policy on obesity and diet-related illnesses like Type 2 diabetes and hypertension.The findings, published Wednesday in The BMJ and The Journal of Public Health Policy, show how Coca-Cola and other multinational food companies, operating through a group called the International Life Sciences Institute, cultivated key Chinese officials in an effort to stave off the growing movement for food regulation and soda taxes that has been sweeping the west.The group, known as ILSI, is a worldwide organization with a Washington headquarters, funded by many of the biggest names in snack foods, including Nestlé, McDonald’s, Pepsi Co. and Yum! Brands as well as Coca-Cola. It has 17 branches, most of them in emerging economies like Mexico, India, South Africa and Brazil, and promotes itself as a bridge between scientists, government officials and multinational food companies.But in China, ILSI is so well-placed that it runs its operations from inside the government’s Centre for Disease Control and Prevention in Beijing. In fact, when asked to comment on the studies, the ministry emailed a statement not from a government official but from ILSI’s China director.The director, Chen Junshi, said that the group had always emphasized the importance of both exercise and a well-balanced diet, and that its activities “are based on science and are not affected by any business.”The close relationship with the highest government health policymakers goes significantly beyond what the companies have been able to achieve in the West.Coca-Cola tried similar tactics in the United States by partnering with influential scientists and creating a nonprofit called the Global Energy Balance Network to promote a message that exercise, not dieting, was the solution to the nation’s obesity crisis. But in 2015, after an article in The New York Times on the efforts and subsequent outcry from public health advocates, the company  disbanded the organization.[Read our article that revealed Coke was behind the group.]In China, beginning in the late 1990s, ILSI organized obesity conferences, paid the way of Chinese scientists who attended the events and helped create national health campaigns aimed at tackling the country’s obesity epidemic, according to Susan Greenhalgh, a social scientist and China expert at Harvard who is the author of both studies.China’s public health initiatives almost always promote exercise, and they seldom mention the value of cutting calories or reducing the consumption of processed food and sugar-sweetened beverages, which many experts say is essential for losing weight, keeping it off, and improving health.“You can’t use physical activity alone to get rid of obesity, hypertension or diabetes,” said Barry Popkin, a professor of nutrition at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.Professor Popkin was not involved in the study, but he has spent decades working in China to help the country develop nutrition guidelines and food policy — efforts he said were often thwarted by well-placed officials aligned with ILSI.Given his experience, he said Professor Greenhalgh’s findings were not surprising. “Over the course of several decades, Coke and ILSI have worked to prevent any kind of food policy that would benefit public health,” he said. “What they’ve been doing in China is insidious.”In a statement, ILSI said it was committed to backing “evidence-based food and nutrition research” and that it did not conduct lobbying activities or make policy recommendations in the countries where it operates.“ILSI does not profess to have been perfect in our 40-year history,” the statement said. “Not surprisingly, there have been bumps along the way. This is why ILSI has analyzed best practices and has committed to ensuring scientific integrity in nutrition and food sector research.”Coca-Cola said in a statement that it had also been changing the way it funded scientific research through greater transparency and by ending its practice of providing the lion’s share of money for studies. In recent years, it added, Coca-Cola has sought to address mounting obesity in China by offering an array of new sugar-free beverages and through improved nutrition labeling on products. “We recognize that too much sugar isn’t good for anyone,” it said.Professor Greenhalgh’s findings were based on interviews with Chinese officials and scientists, and a review of public documents produced by Coca-Cola and ILSI.She said the industry efforts have been wildly successful, in part because China lacks a free media or watchdog organizations that might have been critical of the relationship.In just a few decades, China has gone from a nation plagued by food shortages to one buffeted by soaring obesity and chronic diseases tied to poor diet. More than 42 percent of adults in China are overweight or obese, according to Chinese researchers, more than double the rate in 1991. In Chinese cities, nearly a fifth of all children are obese, according to government surveys.The increases closely follow growing prosperity in China that began in the 1980s as Beijing embraced market economics after decades of isolation. In 1978, Coca-Cola was among the first companies allowed into the country, and ILSI arrived soon afterward. Seeking to identify influential scientists it could work with, the group found a partner in Chen Chunming, a leading nutritionist who was the founding president of the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine, the forerunner of China’s C.D.C.In 1993, Ms. Chen became the head of ILSA-China and she remained a senior adviser to the organization until her death last year. Professors Greenhalgh and Popkin said that Ms. Chen was instrumental in stymying attempts to address soaring obesity by stressing the harmful impact of consuming highly processed food and sugary soft drinks.In interviews, several Chinese nutrition experts said they were not bothered by the relationship between ILSI and multinational beverage companies like Coca-Cola, and they defended the integrity of ILSI-backed researchers, praising their professional bona fides. He Jiguo, a nutrition professor at the College of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering at China Agricultural University, said that Coca-Cola had only amplified the notion that exercise is essential to human health, an idea long espoused by China’s ruling Communist Party.“The key is that no matter what Cola-Cola or other beverage companies say, these drinks are just a product,” he said. “No one is being forced to buy them.”With sweetened beverage consumption dropping in the United States and Europe, Coca-Cola increasingly views China and other developing countries as essential to maintaining profits. China is the company’s third largest market.Martin McKee, professor of European public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said ILSI and other industry-funded groups that represent the interests of the tobacco, alcohol and fast-food companies have found fertile ground in poorer nations with weak public health bureaucracies.Professor McKee, who wrote an editorial in the BMJ that accompanies the study, said such groups often claim to be independent think tanks but refuse to disclose detailed information about their funding.These groups, he said, support and publicize scientific studies whose results sometimes muddy the waters on contentious issues like smoking or alcohol and soda consumption.“They often cherry pick data in ways that mislead while portraying these issues as so terribly complex that nothing can be done,” he said.Claire Fu and Zoe Mou contributed research from Beijing.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Isabel KershnerJERUSALEM — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel acknowledged on Sunday that Israeli forces had attacked Iranian weapons warehouses in Syria, after years of ambiguity over involvement in specific attacks on the country.“We worked with impressive success to block Iran’s military entrenchment in Syria,” Mr. Netanyahu said at the start of the weekly cabinet meeting in Jerusalem, adding that the Israeli military had struck Iranian and Hezbollah targets “hundreds of times.”“Just in the last 36 hours, the air force attacked Iranian warehouses with Iranian weapons at the international airport in Damascus,” Mr. Netanyahu said. “The accumulation of recent attacks proves that we are determined more than ever to take action against Iran in Syria, just as we promised.”The rare admission came hours after the Israeli military announced that it had exposed the sixth and final tunnel under its border with Lebanon, which it says the Iranian-backed organization Hezbollah dug, wrapping up a six-week operation to seal the cross-border tunnels.By lifting the veil on its campaign to curb Iranian influence in the region, as well as Tehran’s efforts to upgrade the capabilities of Hezbollah in Lebanon, the Israeli government appeared to be trying to convey confidence that the threats from across its northern frontiers were under control.The public airing of security achievements came as the departing military chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Gadi Eisenkot, is ending his four-year term and 40-year army career and as Mr. Netanyahu is campaigning for re-election under a cloud of corruption investigations.Mr. Netanyahu also appears to be demonstrating that Israel will not be deterred from acting in Syria despite Russia having supplied the Syrian military with the sophisticated S-300 ground-to-air missile system.Relations between Israel and Russia frayed after a Russian military plane was shot down over Syria in September, killing 15 Russian service members. The plane was accidentally shot down by Syria in response to an Israeli airstrike, and Russian officials blamed Israel.Syrian state media reported early Saturday that Israeli warplanes had launched missiles toward the outskirts of Damascus shortly before midnight on Friday, causing material damage to the ammunition warehouses at Damascus International Airport.Israeli officials have acknowledged carrying out hundreds of strikes against weapons convoys and Iranian targets in Syria, but they have traditionally refused to confirm or deny responsibility for specific attacks immediately after they take place, to avoid pushing the other side into having to retaliate.The new confidence on display on Sunday may stem from the paucity of responses so far, both to the strikes in Syria and to the dismantling of tunnels from Lebanon.In interviews marking his departure, General Eisenkot expressed pride in the policy known as the “campaign between the wars,” including continued efforts to curb Iranian entrenchment in Syria, and said Israel had struck thousands of targets there.Mr. Netanyahu, who, in addition to being prime minister is serving as defense minister and foreign minister, among other roles, would stand to benefit from projecting the image of being tough about security ahead of the April 9 election, even as he faces possible bribery charges.His opponents had accused him of over-dramatizing the anti-tunnel operation and of fear-mongering to distract the public’s attention after the Israeli police recommended that Mr. Netanyahu be indicted on bribery, fraud and other charges in a third corruption case against him.Regarding the disclosure about the attack in Syria, Omer Bar-Lev, a lawmaker in the opposition Labor party, wrote on Twitter on Sunday, “It’s a shame and disgrace that the prime minister is violating the policy of ambiguity that was appropriate for the last three years in the campaign between the wars in Syria, for political purposes.”Avi Dichter, a lawmaker in Mr. Netanyahu’s conservative Likud party and a former security chief, dismissed any political motives, saying in a radio interview: “ Israel has a great interest in creating deterrence. Some deterrence is better achieved with ambiguity, some deterrence is better achieved with open statements.”It was a busy last weekend on the job for General Eisenkot. The Israeli military struck Hamas targets in the Gaza Strip on Friday and Saturday night after Palestinian protests and attempts to breach the border fence, during which a Palestinian woman was killed by Israeli sniper fire, and after Gaza militants fired a rocket into Israel.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byShe and her allies face some old, determined adversaries.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the idealistic class of 64 Democratic House freshmen are armed with a reform agenda.This includes H.R. 1, a 571-page bill that addresses voting rights, corruption, gerrymandering and campaign finance reform as well as the creation of a Select Committee on the Climate Crisis — a first step toward a “Green New Deal.”Proponents of this ambitious project face a determined adversary, however — the top ranks of the interest group establishment, skilled in co-opting liberal members of Congress and converting initiatives to square with the interests of corporate America.The upper stratum of the Washington lobbying community often exercises de facto veto power over the legislative process, dominating congressional policymaking, funneling campaign money to both parties and offering lucrative employment to retiring and defeated members of the House and Senate.Lobbyists exercise this power across the course of a member’s career. “Whoever is elected is immediately met with a growing lobbying onslaught by the same big players,” write Lee Drutman, a senior fellow at New America, Matt Grossmann, a political scientist at Michigan State and Tim LaPira, a political scientist at James Madison University, who have contributed a chapter to “Can America Govern Itself?” a book edited by Francis Lee and Nolan McCarty that is coming out in June.Within the federal lobbying community — a $3.37 billion industry in 2017 — Drutman, Grossmann and LaPira writea limited number of organizations at the very top of the resource distribution have escalated their political investments in ways that increasingly distinguish them from the rest of the pack.This population of groups at the top of the distribution is becoming increasingly stable over the last two decades. This group of top organizations — which we call the top tier — is positioning itself as a distinct class.The authors argue that the first tier lobbying organizationsare analogous to the current generation of very wealthy families who now pay for every conceivable tutor so that their children can be advantaged in applying to elite prep schools and colleges, which are now more and more essential to getting ahead in our increasingly economically stratified society. In both circumstances, financial resources and social connections build up over time, reinforcing stratification. Money does not guarantee outcomes. But it helps reinforce inequalities by widening the gap between the very top and everyone else.The ability of this elite constituency to meet politicians’ demands for campaign contributions and other resources, the authors argue, has allowed Congress to ignore traditional “populist concerns regarding dominant economic interests” as members of the House and Senate “continue their high-dollar fund-raisers and constant meetings with lobbyists.”Despite his right-wing populist campaign and his September 2017 promise — “Our framework includes our explicit commitment that tax reform will protect low-income and middle-income households, not the wealthy and well-connected” — Trump supported and signed into law the $1.5 trillion Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. This extraordinarily regressive legislation decisively favors the rich and corporate interests.As the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center has noted, as a result of the Trump tax bill higher income households will receivelarger average tax cuts as a percentage of after-tax income, with the largest cuts as a share of income going to taxpayers in the 95th to 99th percentiles of the income distribution. On average, in 2027 taxes would change little for lower- and middle-income groups.The Trump administration’s drive to deregulate workplace safety rules and to undermine unions also reflects the impact of the Washington lobbying elite. By definition, lobbies at the highest rungs of the ladder spend more than those lower down, but “the differences are staggering,” Drutman and his colleagues write. The top 100 lobbying groups represent 0.89 percent of the 11,272 registered lobbies, but they “consistently have at least one-third of the in-house lobbyists in Washington, and hire about one in five contract lobbyists from multi-client lobbying firms.” The way it plays out over time, according to Drutman, is that 90 to 95 percent of the top 100 associations and firms represent business interests, as opposed to labor, consumers, or environmentalists. The top 100 spent $1.047 billion in 2017, or a little less than a third of total lobbying dollars that year, according to data provided to The Times by the Center for Responsive Politics.The upper ranks of the Washington lobbying community are most effective at blocking enactment of legislation, as opposed to winning approval of new laws. This is the very power — the crucial power — that prevents successful legislative initiatives from improving the lives of those in the bottom half of the income distribution.Raymond La Raja and Brian Schaffner, political scientists at the University of Massachusetts and Tufts, in their 2015 book, “Campaign Finance and Political Polarization: When Purists Prevail,” argue that legislative inaction inherently benefits the affluent and hurts the less advantaged: “A strong case has been made that policy gridlock exacerbates wealth inequality through a basic failure to adjust policies to new economic and demographic realities,” they write, like globalization and automation, which have disproportionately penalized unskilled and semiskilled labor.La Raja and Schaffner add thatPartisan polarization tends to exacerbate problems of economic inequality because political stalemate makes government less responsive to the needs of poorer citizens.In 2017, the most recent year with complete data, the top 10 lobbying associations — which include the United States Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Realtors, the Business Roundtable and the Pharmaceutical Research & Manufacturers of America — spent a total of $291.2 million on lobbying, according to Open Secrets.In the simplest terms, the pattern of campaign contributions (calculated by Open Secrets) provides insight into the motives of the interest groups and corporations — those represented by the major lobbying groups — that are most concerned with shaping public policy.In the 2017-18 election cycle, securities and investment firms gave a total of $60,566,716, split 53-46 percent between Democrats and Republicans; real estate gave $52,205,352 (51 to 48); accountants, $11,807,757, (46 to 51); the health industry, $159,255,037, (54.6 to 45); and lobbyists themselves contributed $25,828,243, (46 to 53).The stakes of this competition are substantially higher than those involved in picking individual candidates because ultimately they determine entire classes of winners and losers.Instead of building solidarity, study after study shows that as the gulf between rich and poor widens, voters become increasingly mean spirited and hostile to the welfare state, progressive taxation and regulations designed to protect consumers, workers and the environment.“People who have experienced higher inequality during their lives are less in favor of redistribution,” write Christopher Roth and Johannes Wohlfart, economists at the University of Warwick in Britain and Goethe University in Germany, in their November 2018 paper, “Experienced Inequality and Preferences for Redistribution.” They are “less likely to support left-wing parties and to consider the prevailing distribution of incomes to be unfair.”In another essay from November 2018, “Inequality and Participative Democracy. A Self‐Reinforcing Mechanism,” Ioannis Theodossiou and Alexandros Zangelidis, economists at the University of Aberdeen in Scotland, describe the way income inequality leads to political apathy and back again:Greater income inequality alienates and discourages people from engaging with common affairs, thus leading to lower political participation. Yet, lower electoral participation leads towards a less equitable distribution of income. Hence, this study reveals a self‐reinforcing mechanism where the unequal distribution of income leads to political exclusion, which in turn leads to more inequality.In other words, increasing inequality undermines support for a progressive agenda — the agenda most likely to improve the life chances and conditions of the least well off.Steven Pearlstein, a columnist at the Washington Post, in his 2018 book “Can American Capitalism Survive?” describes this negative feedback loop succinctly:As a society, we are now caught in one of those self-reinforcing, downward spirals in which the erosion of social capital, government dysfunction, rising inequality and slowing rates of economic growth are all feeding off each other, with more of one leading to more of all the others.Pearlstein continues:Income inequality and political polarization have become mutually reinforcing, creating the vicious circle that now manifests itself daily in the erosion of norms around civility and truth telling, the declining trust in political institutions, legislative gridlock and political dysfunction.Unsurprisingly, such problems lead to ever more disquieting outcomes.Anthony Chen, a sociologist at Northwestern, wrote by email:Weakened opposition is one reason why business influence over political and regulatory decisions seems greater today than it did before.In addition, Chen argued,one of the big political advantages that business enjoys is that it is continually able to recruit good players and send them to play every game worth playing in the American political and legal system. And there are a lot of games worth playing. Those games might entail having key language inserted into a piece of legislation as it gets finalized by Congress, or sending a top-notch legal team to Federal District Court when a favorable way of interpreting a particular statutory provision is potentially at stake, or making sure that business views are amply reflected in the EPA’s notice-and-comment rule-making process. And those are just some of the games that are being played at the federal level.Still, the newly elected Democratic House majority does not enter the fray without some effective tools of its own. Perhaps most important is the changing source of campaign money.Earlier this month, two reporters for The Times, Stephanie Saul and Rachel Shorey, reported thatDemocratic candidates in the general election collected nearly $296 million in small donations, more than three times the $85 million collected by Republicans.ActBlue, a liberal internet-based nonprofit fund-raising organization, told Saul and Shorey thatit helped raise $1.6 billion in the 2017-18 election cycle, including money it collects for interest groups and state candidates. The average donation was $39.67.The growth of small donor contributions online has lessened the dependence of Democratic candidates on the network of Washington-based PACs and lobbyist-run fund-raisers. The question now, Walter Shapiro, a fellow at the Brennan Center, writes, is whether Democrats “can withstand the inevitable pressure to adapt to business as usual in Washington by resisting the traditional advice to court big-money contributors.”La Raja of warned in an email thatA potentially larger challenge in any Democratic effort to reduce inequality is that allied interest groups and individual donors — as progressive as they are — focus on issues that are not necessarily about reducing inequality for the poor and working class. Instead, the emphasis is often on social issues such as abortion and civil rights, or protecting the environment.Jesse Rhodes, also a political scientist at the University of Massachusetts, questioned in an email whether Democratic donors support the goal of reducing economic inequality:I think that, all things considered, there is probably more tension than alignment with this goal. To be sure, donors tend to be more ideological than non-donors, so donors to Democratic candidates and/or the Democratic Party are going to be fairly liberal on average. At the same time, donors, particularly significant donors, are likely to be fairly affluent, and therefore heavily invested in the status quo.Democratic campaign contributors, Rhodes continued, would in all likelihood besupportive of progressive policies that would reduce economic inequality at the margins — e.g. shoring up Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, supporting increases in the minimum wage, and so forth — but I’m skeptical that they would be enthusiastic about more dramatic policy proposals that would require large tax increases on high incomes.The larger question in the wake of the 2018 elections is whether the forces that propelled Democrats into the majority in the House are powerful and persistent enough to force a shift from the rightward direction of policymaking that has held sway over a significant stretch of the past 40 years.The 2018 election outcome demonstrated that the left has regained momentum and enthusiasm, but the interest group elite — the prime movers of the regressive distribution of income described by Drutman, Grossmann and LaPira — have demonstrated exceptional staying power.“Business groups are simply more numerous and better resourced than any other type of interest group,” Chen writes in “In the Private Interest? Business Influence and American Democracy,” which also appears as a chapter in “Can America Govern Itself?” Corporations and trade groups are far more likely than citizen groups to employ hired lobbyists and former government officials, and the average spending of corporations and trade groups on lobbying and campaign contributions routinely exceeds that of citizen groups by several multiples.Especially in the case of the finance industry, Chen writes,there is rapidly accumulating evidence that campaign contributions deliver a definite and non-trivial improvement in the probability of obtaining a favorable vote.According to Bloomberg, three major business groups — the United States Chamber of Commerce, the Business Roundtable and the National Association of Realtors — invested over $50 million in lobbying to win passage of the trillion dollar Trump tax cut.If newly ascendant Democrats are to have a chance in their struggle against the power brokers of the lobbying community, they will have to maintain and expand their current House majority and eventually win the Senate. Perhaps most important, the party must avoid the repetition of past flameouts.Previous implosions include the elections of 1978 and 1980 that crushed the Democratic surge in the wake of Watergate and the 2010 Republican wave election that brought an abrupt halt to the idea that a new Democratic majority had dawned after President Barack Obama’s victory in 2008.Democrats need a leader who can power through the internal contradictions that their multihued, multicultural rainbow coalition presents.They need their own populist playbook and a presidential candidate equipped to forcefully campaign on it, someone whose personality — bravura, charisma, and bullheadedness — can seal for even a short while the cracks and schisms that push the party in a hundred different directions.My guess is that this will require the Democrats and their presidential nominee to resourcefully confront — to creatively reformat — issues of race and immigration, gender and sexual identity that Republicans have exploited with great success to peel away swing voters. This may be where a candidate’s charisma — his or her ability to elicit committed followership — becomes indispensable. The issue is less whether the party should or should not move left, but how a party of the left presents itself to and recruits an Election Day majority from a heterogeneous and deeply conflicted national audience.The danger for Democrats is that intensifying public hostility to President Trump may hand them the White House in 2020 before they have fully cultivated a leadership cadre equipped to address the conflicts that have torn the party apart in the past — a cadre that must also be strong enough to do battle with the increasingly powerful moneyed class and its voracious lobbying elite.I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Thursday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Katie Thomas and Charles OrnsteinThis article was reported and written in collaboration with ProPublica, the nonprofit journalism organization.Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, one of the world’s leading research institutions, announced on Friday that it would bar its top executives from serving on corporate boards of drug and health care companies that, in some cases, had paid them hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.Hospital officials also told the center’s staff that the executive board had made permanent a series of reforms designed to limit the ways in which its top executives and leading researchers could profit from work developed at Memorial Sloan Kettering, a nonprofit with a broad social mission that admits about 23,500 cancer patients each year.The conflicts at Memorial Sloan Kettering, unearthed by The New York Times and ProPublica, have had a rippling effect on other leading cancer institutions across the country. Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, both of whose executives sit on corporate boards, are among the institutions reconsidering their policies on financial ties.In the wake of reports about board memberships held by Memorial Sloan Kettering officials last fall, Dr. Craig B. Thompson, the hospital’s chief executive, resigned in October from the board of Merck. The company, which makes the blockbuster cancer drug Keytruda, had paid him about $300,000 in 2017 for his service.The announcement on Friday was one of several steps the cancer center said it was considering as part of an institutionwide overhaul of its corporate relationships and conflict-of-interest policies. The cancer center has hired Deloitte as well as two law firms, Ropes & Gray and Debevoise & Plimpton, to help conduct its reviews.Debra Berns, the center’s chief risk officer, also said in an email to employees that the hospital’s Board of Overseers and Managers formalized a policy enacted last fall that prohibits board members from investing in start-up companies that Memorial Sloan Kettering helped to found. In addition, it also prevents hospital employees who represent Memorial Sloan Kettering on corporate boards from accepting personal compensation, like equity stakes or stock options, from the companies.Changes in conflict-of-interest policies. Jan. 11, 2019Dr. Walid Gellad, director of the Center for Pharmaceutical Policy and Prescribing at the University of Pittsburgh, called the policy changes a “watershed moment.”“This is highly significant, especially at such a high-profile academic center,” Dr. Gellad said in an email. “Leadership matters, and the institution has decided that their leaders should not also be concurrently leading for-profit health companies.”When doctors enter into financial relationships with companies, the concern is that these ties can shape the way studies are designed and medications are prescribed to patients, potentially allowing bias to influence medical practice. A 2014 study in JAMA found that about 40 percent of the largest publicly traded drug companies had a leader of an academic medical center on their boards.Ms. Berns said the Memorial Sloan Kettering board’s policy decision was intended to emphasize the hospital’s focus on education, research and treatment of patients. Dr. Nadeem R. Abu-Rustum, who is president of Memorial Sloan Kettering’s medical staff, said the policy changes were “well-received” by employees.Memorial Sloan Kettering has been shaken by the unfolding series of conflicts of interest since September, when The Times and ProPublica reported that its chief medical officer, Dr. José Baselga, had failed to disclose millions of dollars in payments from drug and health care companies in dozens of articles in medical journals.Dr. Baselga resigned days later, and he also stepped down from the boards of the drugmaker Bristol-Myers Squibb and Varian Medical Systems, a radiation equipment manufacturer. Earlier this month, AstraZeneca announced that it had hired Dr. Baselga to run its new oncology unit.Additional reports detailed how other top officials had cultivated lucrative relationships with for-profit companies, including an artificial intelligence start-up, Paige.AI, that was founded by a member of Memorial Sloan Kettering’s executive board, the chair of the pathology department and the head of a research lab. The hospital struck an exclusive deal with the company to license images of 25 million patient tissue slides that had been collected over decades.Another article detailed how a hospital vice president was given a stake of nearly $1.4 million in a newly public company as compensation for representing Memorial Sloan Kettering on its board.When news of Dr. Baselga’s disclosure lapses first became public, 12 doctors and researchers at the hospital served on the boards of publicly traded companies. The number has now dropped to nine.On October 1, some doctors at the hospital called for a no-confidence vote in Dr. Thompson’s leadership and questioned whether the industry relationships were jeopardizing the hospital’s mission.No such vote was taken, but a day later, Dr. Thompson stepped down from the boards of Merck and Charles River Laboratories, which assists in early drug development.The hospital task force is expected to release draft recommendations in February and will solicit feedback from employees, Ms. Berns said in the memo released Friday. The review is also expected to examine faculty membership on corporate boards, participation on companies’ scientific advisory boards, and doctors’ and researchers’ consulting relationships with drug and health care companies.Memorial Sloan Kettering will also host a symposium in February on disclosing conflicts of interest in medical journals, in what Ms. Berns described as “a first step toward developing a common framework that harmonizes financial disclosures in research publications.”Ms. Berns delivered details of the review at a medical staff meeting Friday morning that was also attended by Dr. Lisa DeAngelis, the hospital’s acting physician-in-chief. During the meeting, Dr. DeAngelis sought to reassure employees that hospital leaders were taking their concerns seriously while also defending the hospital’s reputation as a world-renowned cancer center, according to accounts of the meeting.At one point, according to the accounts, Dr. DeAngelis celebrated recent good news for the institution, including the Food and Drug Administration’s approval of a new cancer drug, Vitravki, developed at the hospital.She also cited internal research that she said showed Memorial Sloan Kettering’s treatment of the Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg had received positive press that overshadowed the recent conflict-of-interest coverage.Justice Ginsburg is recovering from cancer surgery on her left lung that was performed at the center. The Supreme Court announced on Friday that she was still recovering and would not be on the bench next week, but that there was no evidence of any more cancer.Charles Ornstein is a senior editor at ProPublica.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Fox News host amplifies a debate the right needs to have.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistThe most interesting thing in conservative politics right now is not the government shutdown and Donald Trump’s flailing attempt to claim victory while being defeated on all fronts. Instead it’s an ideological battle over Tucker Carlson’s recent Fox News soliloquy, in which he accused his fellow Republicans of building an anti-family, finance-dominated economic system that might be “the enemy of a healthy society.”Carlson’s monologue was an expansion of themes that have dominated his reinvention as a Trump-era populist — the general folly of elites, the unwisdom of the bipartisan consensus on immigration and foreign policy, the failure of Republican leaders to defend the national interest.But in expanding on those themes he went somewhere that Fox hosts rarely go — from culture into economics, from a critique of liberal cosmopolitanism into a critique of libertarianism, from a lament for the decline of the family to an argument that this decline can be laid at the feet of consumer capitalism as well as social liberalism.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Just about every conservative worth reading was provoked into responding. One set of responses accused Carlson of a kind of conspiratorial socialism, which exaggerates economic misery, ignores capitalism’s fruits, and encourages ordinary people to blame shadowy elites instead of cultivating personal responsibility.The other group basically said, no, Tucker has a point — the point being that market economies are inevitably shaped by public policy, that policies championed by both parties have failed to promote the interests of the working class, and that social conservatives especially need a framework of political economy to promote the institutions — family, work, neighborhood — upon which civil society depends.If there is to be a healthy American right, after Donald Trump or ever, this is the argument that conservatives should be having. And it is especially an argument that Fox News should be highlighting, since Fox is frequently responsible for stoking populism but keeping it vacuous or racialized, evading the debates the right really needs.Now let me attempt my own quick contribution. A key issue in the Carlson contretemps is distilled in this line from David French of National Review, one of the monologue’s critics: “There are wounds that public policy can’t heal.”This is a crucial conservative insight, a caution for policymakers everywhere — but it can also become a trap, a cul-de-sac, an excuse for doing nothing. And that has happened too often for conservatives in recent decades: They’ve leaped to despair without even trying policy.Let me give three examples. Modern conservatism was forged in the crucible of the 1970s inflation crisis, and in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crash many conservatives were convinced that there was nothing the Federal Reserve could do about the vast army of the unemployed without touching off a similar inflationary spiral.But in hindsight this was wrong, the feared inflation never came, and the economic recovery was slowed because of the Republican fixation on tight money. Of course, in the Trump era some Republicans have conveniently become dovish on inflation. But in the preceding eight years, wage-earning Americans suffered unnecessarily because of a wrongheaded right-wing counsel of despair.A second example: While it’s true that family breakdown has deep and tangled roots, it’s also true that in the 1940s and 1950s, a mix of government policy, union strength and conservative gender norms established a “family wage” — an income level that enabled a single breadwinner to support a family.Maybe it isn’t possible to recreate a family wage for a less unionized and more feminist age — but are we sure? Is there really nothing conservatives can do to address the costs of child care, the unfulfilled parental desire to shift to part-time work, the problem that a slightly more reactionary iteration of Elizabeth Warren once dubbed “the two-income trap”? If marriages and intact families and birthrates declined as the family wage crumbled, perhaps we should try rebuilding that economic foundation before we declare the crisis of the family a wound that policy can’t heal.A final example: Historically conservatism has been proudly paternalist, favorable to forms of censorship and prohibition for the sake of protecting precisely the private virtues that Carlson’s critics think government can’t cultivate. But in recent decades, the right’s elites have despaired of censoring pornography, acquiesced to the spread of casino gambling, made peace with the creeping commercialization of marijuana, and accepted the internet’s conquest of childhood and adolescence.Yet none of these trends actually seem entirely beyond the influence of regulation. It’s just that conservatism has given up — once again, in unwarranted despair — on earlier assumptions about how public paternalism can encourage private virtue.The deeper point here is that public policy is rarely a cure-all, but it can often be a corrective. And the part of Carlson’s monologue his critics should especially ponder is the end, when he suggests that absent a corrective that "protects normal families," even the normal will eventually turn to socialism — choosing a left-wing overcorrection over a right that just says, Well, you see, we already cut corporate taxes, so there's nothing we can do.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAfter two years of pining, Democrats finally have the gavels and subpoenas they need to investigate President Trump and his administration. Blockbuster findings? Don’t expect them anytime soon.By Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON — Democrats, transitioning into the House majority, have quietly sent dozens of letters in recent weeks seeking documents and testimony from President Trump’s businesses, his campaign and his administration, setting the table for investigations that could reach the center of his presidency.Clear targets have emerged in the process, and some others appear to have fallen away, at least for now. Family separation and detention policies at the border have jumped to the forefront. So has the acting attorney general’s oversight of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. But Democrats, after slamming House Republicans for their inadequate inquiry, do not plan to reopen a full-scale Russian interference investigation. They have also chosen to hold off on an immediate request for Mr. Trump’s tax returns.For eager liberals coming off two years of Republican oversight paralysis, the next few weeks may feel something like a game of hurry up and wait. Arranging witnesses and wrangling sensitive government documents take time, and most House committees have yet to be populated with lawmakers, not to mention much of the legion of lawyers who will do a lot of the work of investigations. The Intelligence Committee did not technically have a chairman until last week.“Those people who are expecting some kind of Hollywood movie here are going to be disappointed because it is going be very orderly,” said Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut and a senior member of the Intelligence Committee.Here is what Democrats will focus on first.The impasse over Mr. Trump’s proposed border wall and the death late last month of an 8-year-old boy from Guatemala in United States custody have catapulted the administration’s divisive policies at the border to the top of House Democrats’ agenda. Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee chairman, and a handful of other chairmen plan to examine immigration policies.Their interest and detailed questions could prove problematic for Mr. Trump’s efforts to make a case for his border wall, shining a light on gaps in the current policy and trying to highlight the human toll on migrants.“We are calling on D.H.S. to preserve any and all evidence related to these horrible incidents,” the chairmen wrote. “We as a country can and must do better.”Mr. Nadler has already invited Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting attorney general, to be the committee’s first public hearing witness, and indicated on Wednesday that he would subpoena Mr. Whitaker if necessary to compel an appearance before the end of the month. Democrats are intent on pressing Mr. Whitaker on his involvement in the ousting of former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, his role in the oversight of the special counsel investigation and other policy matters, including the administration’s decision not to defend the Affordable Care Act in a lawsuit brought by Republican state attorneys general.Mr. Nadler has indicated that he intends to wait for Mr. Mueller to conclude his work before seriously considering an impeachment inquiry — a prospect weighing heavily on Democrats that could swamp other oversight efforts. But he said in December that the committee would begin investigating facts presented by federal prosecutors that strongly point to Mr. Trump’s involvement in hush-money payments just before the 2016 election to two women who claim to have had affairs with him, a violation of campaign finance law. They will also look at what Democrats view as “improper” communications between the president and federal law enforcement.After seething over Republican use of the House Intelligence Committee to turn an investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election into an attempt to discredit the president’s investigators, Democrats plan to quickly flip the lens back on to Mr. Trump and his campaign itself. But the panel’s leaders have cautioned that their approach will be narrower than once predicted.“We are conscious of the fact that the Senate continues to do their work, Mueller continues to do his work, and at this point in the game, I would not expect the committee to announce an omnibus investigation,” Mr. Himes said. “The time has passed for that.”Instead, Democrats will initially pursue at least two questions — one discreet, the other potentially very complicated — that Republicans in control of the committee would not touch. The panel’s new chairman, Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, said it was initiating a request for phone records of the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., to clarify whom he called while arranging a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in Manhattan between members of the Trump campaign and a Russian lawyer. Phone records already in the hands of congressional investigators show a call was placed to a blocked number, and Donald Trump Jr. told investigators that he did not remember who he had called. Democrats believe the blocked number may have belonged to his father, and could prove that the president had prior knowledge of the Russian offer to share dirt on his opponent, Hillary Clinton.The committee would also like to request financial records related to Mr. Trump’s dealings with Russia and other foreign powers. Intelligence Committee Democrats appear to be circling around two well-known but still mysterious transactions: Mr. Trump’s sale of a Palm Beach, Fla., mansion to a Russian oligarch in 2008 and loans to the Trump Organization from Deutsche Bank.In the real estate case, Mr. Trump bought a Palm Beach estate for $41 million in 2004 and, only four years later, amid a national housing crisis, sold it to the Russian billionaire, Dmitry Rybolovlev, for $95 million. Democrats say the deal stinks of potential money laundering. Loans from Deutsche Bank — hundreds of millions of dollars extended by a bank later accused in an unrelated case of laundering Russian money during a time when few other major banks would lend to Mr. Trump’s businesses — also raise concerns that Russia could have financial leverage over the president.Democrats on the House Financial Services Committee, under Representative Maxine Waters of California, have also been asking questions about the Deutsche loans since early 2017, and plan to press their investigation ahead with the full powers of the majority.Democrats are prepared to subpoena the records if necessary. Mr. Schiff said staff had already begun informal conversations with institutions, potential witnesses and their lawyers about records requests, but because the panel has not technically been appointed yet, formal requests must wait — most likely until the end of January.Mr. Schiff declined to name specific witnesses except Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer who has pleaded guilty to lying to Congress about the Trump Organization’s dealings with Russia and to buying the silence of two women who say they had affairs with Mr. Trump.Democrats tried more than a dozen times over the past two years to obtain Mr. Trump’s tax returns. But now that they finally have the opportunity to do so — thanks to an obscure 1920s tax code provision — the relevant Democratic committee chairman appears to be in no rush.In an effort to parry Republican accusations of overreach, the House Ways and Means chairman, Representative Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts, has decided instead to try to first build a public case for why the returns ought to become public before he lodges a formal request. He plans to convene a hearing this month focused on presidential tax returns in conjunction with sweeping anticorruption legislation that includes language requiring all presidents and candidates to make their returns public.Ultimately, Mr. Neal and Democrats do not need new laws. Sometime after the hearings — probably in February — Mr. Neal plans to invoke Section 6103 in the tax code, which allows chairmen of the House and Senate tax writing committees to request from the Treasury Department tax returns or related information on any tax filer. In theory, committee investigators could then privately study the returns for any compromising or illegal financial dealings. The committee would have to vote to make any of the information public.Whether the administration will put up a fight remains unclear. Mr. Trump has said publicly that he does not care if Democrats pursue the documents; Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, has said he will defer to legal counsel. There is, however, scant precedent for this particular case: Mr. Trump is the first president or major presidential candidate in decades to refuse to release his returns.Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the chairman of the Oversight and Reform Committee, had a stern and straightforward message when he sent off 51 oversight letters to cabinet secretaries and Trump Organization lawyers shortly before Christmas: Consider this “a basic first step” and not a voluntary one.As he stands up the House’s marquee investigative committee, Mr. Cummings has deliberately chosen to begin with targets that Republicans once agreed should be studied, but failed to follow up on. They include records related to the administration’s response to Hurricanes Irma and Maria, which devastated American territories in the Caribbean; Ivanka Trump’s use of a private email account for government business; the use of government jets for personal travel; misconduct by the former Environmental Protection Agency administrator, Scott Pruitt; and the Flint, Mich., water crisis.Laying the groundwork to look for potential violations of the Constitution’s emoluments clause, which bans payments from foreign governments to federal officeholders, he wrote to the Trump Organization requesting documents related to the company’s procedures for identifying foreign payments. In each, Mr. Cummings said he expected the documents by Friday.  Subpoenas could follow if they are not produced. But much of the committee’s investigative work is likely to remain private in the coming weeks. Other targets appear to be imminent. Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, said she and Mr. Cummings agreed they would study what she called the Trump administration’s attempts to manipulate the 2020 census for political gain.“Our whole democracy is based on representation,” Ms. Maloney said, “and if there is a conscious effort to undercount representation, that is an attack fundamentally on our democracy.” Nicholas Fandos is a reporter in the Washington bureau covering Congress.  @npfandos AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherThe N.F.L. and its players association defended their policy of random drug testing of the league’s players on Wednesday after Carolina Panthers safety Eric Reid suggested that he had been subjected to a curiously high number of them this season.Reid, who joined the Panthers in Week 4, noted in December that he had been selected for a drug test for the seventh time this season. Ten players from each team are selected for testing each week, according to the league’s drug policy, and Yahoo Sports reported that the chance a single player would be chosen for so many tests randomly was about 1 in 500.Number 7... ”Random” pic.twitter.com/6HkxXCZhQP“I’ve been here 11 weeks, I’ve been drug-tested seven times,” Reid told reporters. “That has to be statistically impossible. I’m not a mathematician, but there’s no way that’s random.”In a joint statement, the league and players union said Wednesday that the accusation that Reid had been subjected to an inordinate number of tests deliberately had been investigated by the administrator of the drug policy and “that Mr. Reid’s tests were randomly generated via computer algorithm and that his selection for testing was normal.”“There is no evidence of targeting or any other impropriety with respect to his selection for testing,” the joint statement said.Reid has been a close ally of his former 49ers teammate Colin Kaepernick and has backed protests over police brutality and racism, kneeling during the national anthem throughout the season. He filed a grievance against the N.F.L. in the off-season when he had few takers as a free agent. The Panthers eventually signed him in late September.His grievance is due to be heard in the coming off season.“I guess there was something about some mathematician saying it’s highly improbable, but definitely possible,” Carolina Coach Ron Rivera said last month. “But I’ll say this: If my name came up that many times, I’d buy a lottery ticket.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byUnless it’s a better deal than Trump is likely to accept.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.First, Obamacare marches on: In the latest sign of the law’s success, Maine has become the 36th state to expand Medicaid, thanks to the insistence of the state’s voters.Janet Mills, Maine’s new Democratic governor, implemented the expansion more than a year after voters approved it in a ballot referendum. The previous governor — Paul LePage, a Republican — had refused to honor the referendum’s result. As a result of Mills’s move, more than 500 Mainers gained health insurance, and many more will be covered in coming years.The larger lesson is to avoid despair. Changing laws is hard work, often involving years of frustration. But it really is possible for politics to improve people’s lives. Congratulations to all of the voters, activists, politicians and medical professionals in Maine who kept fighting for this change.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Let’s make a dealShould Democrats be willing to bargain on the border wall — say, win big progress on other parts of immigration policy in exchange for wall funding? I asked this question on Twitter yesterday, and the roughly 1,500 responses were split almost evenly between yes and no.I was struck by the even split, because it’s consistent with my own conflicted feelings. There is a real case for bargaining. The wall would not transform this country’s immigration policy, and it’s plausible that President Trump would agree to real concessions — like legal status for the young immigrants known as Dreamers — for wall funding.Yesterday, a group of Republican senators began pushing for a deal broadly along these lines. The editorial boards of The Washington Post, The Chicago Tribune and The New York Post all favor such a compromise. It could also protect immigrants from Haiti, Honduras and El Salvador who are fleeing natural disasters and whose protected status Trump has revoked, writes Ali Noorani for CNN. My own view is that Democrats should remain open to a deal, but not put too much hope in it. For one thing, the chances seem slim that Republicans will make big enough concessions, given the hardline immigration positions of top Trump advisers.For another, I worry about the political effect of rewarding Trump’s tactics on the wall. Remember, he canceled a deal to keep the government open that both Republican and Democratic members of Congress agreed to. He did so in large part because Fox News hosts and other conservative pundits began making fun of him. And his case for the border wall is based on a torrent of lies.“To those who say, ‘Trump should give DACA, Pelosi should do the wall,’ we must say a clear, ‘No.’” Reverend William Barber tweeted yesterday, referring to the policy that would make Dreamers legal. “The wall isn’t negotiable b/c it’s based on lies, racism & white nationalism.”The Democrats’ best bet is probably to force Trump to end this mess himself, likely through a legally questionable declaration of emergency. That declaration would be the subject of a legal fight, and it would create some political risks for Trump. He is apparently considering taking money away from disaster relief in Florida and elsewhere, which doesn’t seem like the smartest move given the state’s electoral importance.The shutdown isn’t going well for Trump. Voters mostly blame him, polls show. Republicans in Congress are grumbling. If Democrats are tempted to make a deal, it needs to be a very favorable one.Pop-culture postscript: A reader points out that the wall fight echoes a “House of Cards” plot line. In season 3, the president diverts money from disaster relief to pay for a jobs program that Congress refused to fund. House of cards, indeed.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Paulina Villegas and Kirk SempleTIJUANA, Mexico — A new Trump administration policy forcing certain asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while their cases are processed in the United States took effect on Tuesday, when American officials ushered the first such migrant through a Southern California border gate into northern Mexico.The migrant, a 55-year-old man from Honduras, had applied for asylum in the United States after crossing the border from Mexico. Under the new policy, he will live in Mexico temporarily, returning to the United States only for court dates pertaining to his case.Dressed in a brown jacket and black cap, he looked dazed as he emerged late Tuesday morning on the Mexican side of the border in Tijuana and was swarmed by scores of reporters, photographers and television cameramen.“I’m very tired,” he mumbled before being quickly spirited away in a van by Mexican migration officials.The new policy, first announced in December by Trump administration officials, is a dramatic step in what they cast as an effort to rein in asylum fraud and illegal immigration. It represents a major shift from a longstanding practice that permitted most migrants who requested asylum to go free in the United States while they awaited the outcome of their cases.American officials said that under that policy, many asylum applicants would never show up for their court dates and would simply vanish into the interior of the country.If the policy is applied to a majority of asylum applicants on the Mexico-United States border, it could result in thousands more migrants flooding Mexico’s border states every year.Mexican officials said that while they disagreed with the Trump administration’s new policy, they have agreed to take in certain asylum seekers and vowed to protect the migrants’ human rights and allow them to work in Mexico while their cases unfold in the United States.Rodulfo Figueroa, an official with Mexico’s National Migration Institute, said the man in the brown jacket, whose name was not revealed, would be the only migrant returned to Mexico on Tuesday under the new policy, but that more are expected soon.“We’re just reacting to a unilateral decision,” said Mr. Figueroa, a top federal migration official in the Mexican state of Baja California.Since the Trump administration’s announcement of the new asylum policy, Mexican officials have been negotiating with their counterparts in Washington to define the conditions under which they would accept the migrants.On Monday night, Tonatiuh Guillén López, the commissioner of Mexico’s National Migration Institute, said Mexico would only accept migrants from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras between the ages of 18 and 60. He also said that Mexico would only receive returned asylum seekers through the border crossing that connects Tijuana with San Diego, California.The returned asylum seekers will be granted special four-month, multiple-entry visas that would allow them to travel to the United States for their court dates and then once again return to Mexico, Mexican officials said. Some of the returnees will already have one-year humanitarian visas which allow them to work and travel freely in the country. Asylum cases in the United States can take years to resolve, yet it remained unclear whether and under what terms the Mexican visas would be extended.The American policy change applies to some asylum seekers who try to enter the United States at official crossings on the country’s southern border, or are apprehended on American soil after trying to cross illegally. But it will not apply to Mexican asylum seekers who might risk harm if returned to Mexico, the very place where they are claiming fear of persecution as grounds for their asylum claim.Migrants’ advocates and human rights groups have vociferously criticized the American policy shift, saying Mexico, which is suffering historic levels of violence, is not a safe place to send people who already fear for their lives. In addition, Tijuana and other border towns are already overwhelmed with migrants deported from the United States as well as migrants from Central America and elsewhere seeking to enter the country.In meetings in recent days, American immigration officials have assured advocates that the returns would be conducted in close coordination with Mexican officials, who will preapprove all returnees. For now, the officials said, only single adult males in good health would be sent back to Mexico.While the Mexican government has claimed that the policy implementation was a unilateral American move, the United States immigration officials, from the Customs and Border Protection agency, assured the advocates that they had been working with their Mexican counterparts at all levels for months and would continue to be in daily contact for at least the next 30 days while the program was gaining speed.American advocacy groups are expected to file legal challenges to the new policy in the coming days, after gathering evidence from its rollout.President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico has said he wanted to welcome migrants and foster employment opportunities for them, and he has begun to follow through on his promises, encouraging immigrants to stay and work in Mexico by making it easier to get visas and promoting job-creation strategies.Some asylum seekers who had just arrived in Tijuana were surprised to hear on Tuesday about the new American asylum policy.Anabel España, 39, a Honduran migrant who hoped to apply for asylum in the United States, said that staying in Mexico for many months was never her plan.“We don’t know what can happen to you here, if you will be kidnapped,” she said. “Tijuana is not exactly the safest place, you know?”But Ms. España, who said she had fled extortion threats in Honduras, said at least she could work and wouldn’t be held in a detention center in the United States.“At least here we are free,” she said.Azam Ahmed contributed reporting from Mexico City.Follow Kirk Semple and Paulina Villegas on Twitter: @KirkSemple and @Paulina_VV.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Trump administration is not prepared for a foreign policy crisis.By Antony J. BlinkenMr. Blinken was a deputy secretary of state in the Obama administration.Senator John McCain liked to remind us that it is always darkest before it goes completely black. That may prove an apt metaphor for President Trump’s foreign policy. The past two years have been plenty dark, with a long list of self-inflicted wounds: tearing up the Iran nuclear deal, pulling out of the Paris climate accord, walking away from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, separating children from their parents at the border, insulting allies while embracing autocrats. But the administration has not faced an actual national security crisis that tests it and us in a profound way. There is no shortage of possible candidates — a major terrorist attack; a debilitating cyberattack; an infectious disease outbreak; an incident with North Korea, Iran, China or Russia that escalates into a broader conflict. Yet no administration in modern memory has been less prepared to deal with a true crisis than this one.I spent nearly 25 years in government, and almost as much time studying it. When it comes to the effective stewardship of our nation’s security — especially during crises — the most successful administrations had three things in common: people, process and policy. People with the experience, temperament and intellectual honesty to give a president good ideas and to dissuade him from pursuing bad ones. An effective process that brings key stakeholders together to question one another’s assumptions, stress test options and consider second-order effects. And all of this in the service of developing clear policies that provide marching orders to everyone in an administration, while putting allies at ease and adversaries on notice about our intentions.The George H.W. Bush administration’s handling of the end of the Cold War powerfully illustrates these principles. Mr. Bush, Secretary of State James Baker, the national security adviser Brent Scowcroft and a remarkable team of senior officials proved to be the right people in the right place at the right time. Mr. Scowcroft’s interagency process became a model for every successive administration until this one. The policies they pursued were clear, sustained and comprehensive. The Obama administration’s successes in bringing Osama bin Laden to justice and handling the Ebola epidemic were the results of similar strengths.When it comes to people, process and policy, Mr. Trump’s administration has gone from bad to disastrous.For two years, cooler heads like Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and the national security adviser H.R. McMaster served as something of a check on Mr. Trump’s worst instincts: invade Venezuela, withdraw from NATO, evacuate every American from the Korean Peninsula. Now, their successors — Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and John Bolton as national security adviser — are as likely to encourage Mr. Trump’s follies as to oppose them. Equally important, the Partnership for Public Service has found that almost 40 percent of leadership positions requiring Senate confirmation remain unfilled across the administration —  at last count 275 out of 705 jobs. About a third of the State Department’s 198 key posts are vacant. One-quarter of the administration’s departments are led by “acting” secretaries.There’s been record turnover in the White House itself — in its first two years 65 percent of the top positions in the Executive Office of the President have flipped, according to a Brookings Institution report by Kathryn Dunn Tenpas. By comparison, Barack Obama lost 24 percent of his senior advisers after two years and President George W. Bush 33 percent. Senior White House officials responsible for homeland security and cybersecurity have been pushed out and never replaced. The best and brightest are not exactly clamoring to jump aboard the Trump bandwagon.Under Mr. Bolton, the National Security Council headed by the president, the Principals’ Committee headed by Mr. Bolton and the Deputies Committee, which I once led and which coordinates policy deliberations, have gone into deep hibernation. Some combination of these committees typically met multiple times a day. Now, it is reportedly once or twice a week at most. The result is greater control of the policy process for Mr. Bolton and fewer messy meetings in which someone might challenge his wisdom. Mr. Mattis, who once complained about death by meetings, protested to Mr. Bolton about the lack of them.The absence of process has consequences. There were minimal efforts to prepare Mr. Trump for his summit with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean dictator, in which he unilaterally ended military exercises on the Korean Peninsula and mused about withdrawing all American forces. Nor was there a process to game out Mr. Trump’s recent decision to pull out of Syria — instead, the relevant committees scrambled after the fact to bring some order to Mr. Trump’s impulses. Even the welcome progress toward ending the 17-year war in Afghanistan has been hobbled by Mr. Trump’s arbitrary and then partly rescinded announcement that he was cutting forces in Afghanistan by half, thereby undercutting our leverage in negotiations with the Taliban.As for policy, it’s the lifeblood of any administration. Secretaries, other senior officials, ambassadors and envoys all need to know what the policy is to explain it to others and bring predictability to our nation’s foreign engagements. Mr. Trump’s failure to develop policies — and his tendency to countermand them by tweet — have caused major confusion worldwide about where we stand on issue after issue. In a crisis, having clear policy principles is even more important. Take the meltdown in Venezuela. The administration deserves credit for leading the international isolation of the country’s illegitimate president, Nicolás Maduro. But there is no evidence it has a comprehensive strategy to advance a peaceful transition — or a Plan B if Mr. Maduro digs in or lashes out.Axios reported that Mr. Trump likes to express his disdain for policy by citing the boxer Mike Tyson: Everybody has a plan until he gets punched in the mouth. It’s true that no policy fully survives first contact. But if you don’t spend time anticipating the shots you are likely to take, you wind up flailing about wildly. Which sounds a lot like Mr. Trump.These past two years, most of our foreign policy setbacks have been modest, and mostly of Mr. Trump’s own making. These next two, we may not be so lucky. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Antony J. Blinken, a deputy secretary of state in the Obama administration, is a managing director of the Penn Biden Center, a co-founder of WestExec Advisors and a contributing opinion writer.  @ABlinken AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byBy Simon Romero and Caitlin DickersonANTELOPE WELLS, N.M. — The Border Patrol’s tiny base in the southwest corner of New Mexico is so remote that the wind howls through the surrounding basin where mountain lions still stalk their prey.But that hasn’t stopped thousands of Central Americans from journeying in recent weeks to the rural outpost and other isolated points along the Southwest border, launching increasingly desperate bids for asylum in the United States.In a two-day span in January, 362 migrants surrendered to the Border Patrol in Antelope Wells, overwhelming the small base’s capacity to process asylum requests. Last week, a new group of 306 migrants arrived at the same location, including children in need of immediate medical care — a situation officials in New Mexico say is without precedent.Prompting these trips to ever-more-remote border locations are not only the nearly 700 miles of border wall and fencing built since 2006, but the Trump administration’s increasingly rigid immigration policies aimed at deterring the flow of migrant families, mostly from Central America, that have streamed in from Mexico since 2014.Over the past year, the government has limited the number of asylum seekers who are allowed to present their cases each day at certain ports of entry, stationed agents on bridges to turn asylum seekers away and launched tear gas at migrants attempting to cross the border near San Diego.The administration went even further last week, announcing that it would start requiring some asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while their applications are processed, which can take years. Officials plan to implement the new policy at the San Ysidro border crossing near San Diego before expanding it to crossings in Arizona, New Mexico and Texas.Taken together, these moves effectively have forced some Central American migrants to wait for months to apply for asylum, sometimes sleeping on the street or in crowded shelters in Mexican border cities.Frustrated and increasingly desperate, thousands of families have lately been opting to pay smugglers to take them to remote border stations where they can surrender quickly to American officials and hope to be allowed to remain in the United States while their asylum claims are processed.In December, which saw a record number of families arriving at the border, 27,518 migrants traveling in families were apprehended in areas outside normal border stations. The El Paso sector, which includes the suddenly busy area of rural New Mexico, saw a 1,866 percent increase in family apprehensions during October and November of 2018, compared with the same period a year earlier.Pushing migrants toward remote desert locations puts them at higher risk of dehydration, heatstroke or hypothermia. Most are choosing the more dangerous crossing routes because they have been foreclosed from seeking asylum at the more widely traveled border crossings, said Fernando Garcia, director of the Border Network for Human Rights in El Paso. “How else to explain the desperation of thousands of people making it to the middle of nowhere just so they can surrender to Border Patrol?”Trump administration officials have argued that the new policies are an attempt to discourage migrants from even attempting the dangerous trips through Mexico where they are especially vulnerable to extortion and human trafficking. Officials contend that existing legislation encourages parents to bring children along on the journey.Katie Waldman, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security, laid blame on the federal government having to comply with the Flores agreement, a 1997 legal settlement aimed at preventing lengthy detentions of migrant children, and subsequent legislation codifying parts of the settlement into federal law.“We continue to call on Congress to address this humanitarian and security crisis that entices smugglers to bring families across the border,” Ms. Waldman said.Border Patrol officials have put forward various theories about why crossings at remote locations are climbing that have nothing to do with the administration’s policies. Kevin McAleenan, commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, said in a conference call with reporters in December that smugglers could be trying to hold down the transit fees they pay to other criminal organizations with sway in northern Mexico by dropping migrants near remote locations like Antelope Wells.In an interview in El Paso, Jose Romero, a supervisory agent in the Border Patrol’s sector that oversees operations in New Mexico, offered another explanation, claiming that Mexican cannabis smugglers were trying to distract agents in the field by flooding remote stations with asylum seekers.“Our adversary is no idiot,” Mr. Romero said, adding that while agents were arresting 247 migrants in Antelope Wells one January day, traffickers were trying to smuggle hundreds of pounds of marijuana across the border in another location. “Now they know where our weak spots are,” he said.The administration has not been unmindful of the hazards of migrants venturing into little-traveled regions. Partly in an attempt to deter such crossings and what government officials describe as “meritless” asylum claims, the administration tried last year to refuse to accept asylum applications from anyone who had not entered the country at a legal border crossing, but that policy was blocked by the courts. And Antelope Wells, though remote, is a legal border crossing.Just how dangerous such crossings are became apparent in December, when Jakelin Caal Maquin, a 7-year-old girl from Guatemala, died in United States custody after she and her father crossed the border in a group of 163 migrants that surrendered to agents at Antelope Wells. Only a few weeks later, an 8-year-old boy from Guatemala, Felipe Gómez Alonzo, died after crossing the border about three miles west of the Paso Del Norte port of entry in El Paso.But the numbers have only continued to grow. Since the start of the 2019 fiscal year, the Border Patrol said, it has found at least 24 groups of 100 or more migrants that had crossed around the Bootheel, the sparsely populated area where New Mexico’s border with Mexico dips southward like a cowboy boot’s heel.At the end of a 45-mile road from the decaying hamlet of Hachita that runs through grazing lands dotted with creosote bushes, the Border Patrol has maintained a small presence at Antelope Wells for decades. A sign says the base is open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The population of Antelope Wells, once 2, sometimes soars all the way into the high single digits when more than a handful of agents are deployed here for weeklong assignments.At another remote point to the west in Arizona, the Border Patrol reported that 376 migrants had tunneled through the sandy soil under the border fence near Yuma, earlier this month and then surrendered to agents. The group, which included dozens of children, ranks among the largest groups of families and unaccompanied children ever arrested on the border with Mexico.Immigration activists say the increase in remote crossings is just the latest development in a decades-long effort to push immigration out of urban areas, tracing back at least to Operation Blockade, a Clinton administration initiative in 1993 to curb unauthorized crossings in the city of El Paso. Border fencing erected in Southern California and Arizona in recent years drove some of the biggest migration flows toward the Rio Grande Valley in Texas, where the river marks the border and many migrants are able to cross with a short boat ride.Busy border crossings like the one in McAllen, Tex., now have relatively elaborate infrastructure set up to handle newly arrived families seeking asylum. But no such facilities exist in this stretch of rural New Mexico, raising fears that the recent deaths of the two Guatemalan children won’t be the last.The grim cost of United States immigration policies is hardly new. Law enforcement authorities have found the remains of about 8,000 migrants who have died while crossing the border with Mexico since the 1990s. And while undetected illegal border crossings have fallen sharply over the past decade, hundreds of migrants continue to die making the attempt each year.At least 413 migrants were found dead along the border in 2018, according to a preliminary count by the International Organization for Migration, up from 412 in 2017 and 399 in 2016.“We’re seeing the increase in people crossing out here, and we’re afraid,” said Amanda Adame, 39, a cattle rancher whose family lives in Hachita, about 45 miles north of Antelope Wells. “We’re fearful for the families that are going across and fearful for our own safety.”Still, humanitarian groups say they are waging an uphill battle to save lives along the border. Some cite the conviction in January of four volunteers from the Unitarian Universalist Church in Tucson on charges of abandonment of property after they left caches of food and water in an Arizona wildlife refuge where migrants have died while crossing into the United States.“Asylum seekers shouldn't have to cross in the middle of the desert,” said Justine Orlovsky-Schnitzler, a member of the advocacy group No More Deaths in Tucson. “This is the newest stage of policies that have been sentencing migrants to death for decades.”Simon Romero reported from Antelope Wells, N.M., and Caitlin Dickerson from El Paso.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jeff Ernst and Kirk SempleCIUDAD HIDALGO, Mexico — Mexico’s new president has moved decisively to encourage migrants fleeing poverty and violence in Central America to stay and work in Mexico, making it easier for them to get visas and work permits and promoting investments and ambitious public works projects to create jobs.President Andrés Manuel López Obrador’s policies are already proving to be a magnet for migrants, who are finding it harder to enter the United States given President Trump’s antipathy toward immigration. A migrant caravan heading to Mexico from Central America — the largest ever — has already swollen to over 12,000 people, with many saying they intend to remain in Mexico, at least for the time being. The new Mexican president’s generosity toward immigrants, officials say, dovetails with his broader commitment to protect human rights, reduce inequality and prioritize the poor.Mr. López Obrador’s pro-immigrant stance also serves as a dramatic counterpoint to the White House, without directly challenging Mr. Trump. But these policies could ultimately put pressure on the Mexico-United States border, as most in the caravan eventually hope to cross into the United States.Many in the caravan said they decided to migrate after a decision by the Mexican government to drastically speed up the process for securing a yearlong humanitarian visa that allows migrants to legally travel and work in Mexico.“The humanitarian visa that they’re giving now is the reason we are here,” said Carlos del Valle, a Guatemalan teacher who was standing in line with his family this week to apply for the visa on the bridge connecting Guatemala with Mexico.“Later, if possible, we can get to the United States,” he said.Under the streamlined process, which began last week, the government is seeking to issue the humanitarian visa in an average of five days rather than a month. Migration officials said the policy would be permanent.The initiative, officials say, is part of the president’s strategy to make Mexico’s immigration policy more humane, after years of stepped-up deportations under pressure from the United States. But it could also draw even more migrants to trek north to the border with the United States, inflaming tensions with a Trump administration determined to build a border wall and lower immigration numbers.On Thursday, the Trump administration said it would institute a new policy to return most asylum-seekers to Mexico if they had arrived at the southwest border by land. Under the policy, which is intended to discourage Central Americans from migrating to the United States and to ease pressure on the asylum system, the petitioners would be required to remain in Mexico while they await the outcome of their cases.The current migrant caravan left San Pedro Sula in Honduras on Jan. 14 and, in the following days, began arriving at the Guatemala-Mexico border. Mexican officials encouraged the migrants to apply for the humanitarian visa, and since then over 12,000 people, mostly Hondurans, have done so in this border town in southern Mexico.But while some in the caravan say they intend to remain in Mexico and avail themselves of government-sponsored jobs programs, many plan to use the visas as safe-passage permits to ease their journey to Mexico’s northern border, where they hope to figure out a way to cross into the United States.Mr. Trump has excoriated the governments of Central America and Mexico for, he says, not doing enough to stop the caravans. He has portrayed the migrants as invaders threatening Americans’ security and jobs.Mr. Trump’s demand that Congress approve funding for a wall across the border resulted in a weekslong stalemate with Democrats and a partial shutdown of the American government that ended, at least for now, on Friday. To bolster his case, he has recently taken to Twitter to warn about the current caravan.“Mexico is doing NOTHING to stop the Caravan which is now fully formed and heading to the United States,” he wrote on Saturday.GUATEMALAMEXICOCiudadHidalgoCiudad TecúnUmánBRIDGESuchiate River1/2 mile100 mileSBELIZEMEXICOSan PedroSulaGUATEMALAHONDURASArea of detailEL SALVADORPacific OceanBy The New York TimesIn an earlier tweet, he said: “Another big Caravan heading our way. Very hard to stop without a Wall!”The Mexican government initially said it was speeding up the application process for humanitarian visas as an “exception” for the current migrant caravan only. But on Thursday, a spokeswoman with Mexico’s national migration agency said the expedited process would be permanent.“This is like a light in the road for migrants because they know they can enter Mexico without difficulty,” said Karen Valladares, director of the National Forum for Migration in Honduras, an advocacy group. “Now we’re seeing a different Mexico, a Mexico that opens its borders, a Mexico that is providing opportunities, a Mexico that is giving — one way or another — hope.”The government’s motives, however, are not just humanitarian. The Mexican government has said it has a labor shortage and is trying to fill tens of thousands of low-skilled jobs around the country.Most migrants in the current caravan have chosen to apply for the humanitarian visa. But on Jan. 18, a group of about 1,500 crossed at the official border checkpoint here in Ciudad Hidalgo, walking right by Mexican border officials who did not move to stop them. Hundreds of members of that group have since continued to travel north through Mexico, unimpeded by Mexican authorities.Except for that incident, the process has been orderly, in sharp contrast to an incident in October when members of another large migrant caravan clashed with Mexican police officers at the same crossing. Many members of that caravan, and several smaller ones that followed in quick succession, eventually made it to the northern Mexican state of Baja California, putting extraordinary strain on local government and the resources of civil society.An increasing number of participants in the current caravan, it seems, have been drawn to the idea of staying in Mexico.“What I want is to cross in order to work, no more than that,” said Yanina Vargas, 27, a Honduran migrant who was standing in a line of more than one thousand people on the border bridge that connects Guatemala with Mexico.To address the root causes of migration, Mr. López Obrador has vowed to promote job creation in southern Mexico and Central America, and has been pushing a $30 billion regional development plan. He has also ordered tax cuts in dozens of municipalities along the northern border to spur economic development and job creation. His administration joined with business sector and labor leaders in December to raise the minimum wage by about 16 percent, to boost the fortunes of the nation’s working class.But despite these enticements, and Mr. Trump’s unwelcoming posture toward migrants, many participants in the current caravan were still intent on making it to the United States.Franklin Caballero, 30, from Honduras, said he lived in the United States as an undocumented immigrant for six years but was deported for driving without a license. Traveling with the caravan, he hoped to make it back.“Even though I have to wait five days for the pass to get into Mexico, later I will see how to get to the United States,” he said, standing in line to apply for the humanitarian visa. His tentative plan was to pay a smuggler in northern Mexico to sneak him across the border into the United States.Still others were keeping their options open, prepared to live and work in Mexico until they saw an opportunity to cross into the United States.“Our aim is to find work,” said Anabella López, 50, a Guatemalan migrant, who was traveling with seven relatives covering three generations. “The United States is difficult now.”Ms. López said that she had followed the news about the caravans that arrived in northern Mexico in the fall and knew they had “suffered a lot.”But she also wondered how Mexico was going to support so many new arrivals from Central America.“What is this country going to do with so many people?” she asked.Jeff Ernst reported from Ciudad Hidalgo, and Kirk Semple from Mexico City.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNo one, particularly ordinary Cubans, is benefiting from the 60-year feud.By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistHAVANA — It has been 60 years since Fidel Castro marched into Havana, so it’s time for both Cuba and the United States to grow up. Let’s let Cuba be a normal country again.Cuba is neither the demonic tyranny conjured by some conservatives nor the heroic worker paradise romanticized by some on the left. It’s simply a tired little country, no threat to anyone, with impressive health care and education but a repressive police state and a dysfunctional economy.Driving in from the airport, I saw billboards denouncing the American economic embargo as the “longest genocide in history.” That’s ridiculous. But the embargo itself is also absurd and counterproductive, accomplishing nothing but hurting the Cuban people — whom we supposedly aim to help.After six decades, can’t we move on? Let’s drop the embargo but continue to push Havana on improving human rights, and on dropping support for other oppressive regimes, like those in Venezuela and Nicaragua.Let’s make room for nuance: Cuba impoverishes its citizens and denies them political rights, but it does a good job providing basic education and keeping people healthy. As I noted in my last column, on Cuba’s health care system, Cuba’s official infant mortality rate is lower than America’s (its real rate may or may not be).I’m not a Cuba expert, and I don’t know how this country will evolve. But Cuba has a new president, Miguel Díaz-Canel, who is associated with experiments in opening up the economy. Fidel is gone and his brother Raúl is fading from the scene.In the 1960s, we were scared of Cuba. We feared that neighboring countries would tumble like dominoes into the Communist bloc, and the Soviet Union attempted to place on Cuba nuclear missiles that could have threatened America. But today even as those fears have dissipated, our policy has ossified.President Barack Obama took the necessary step of re-establishing diplomatic relations and easing the embargo, but President Trump reversed course and tightened things up again out of knee-jerk hostility to anything Cuban and anything Obaman.Cuba is changing, albeit too slowly. About one-third of its labor force is now in the private sector, and this is just about the only part of the economy that is thriving. I stayed in one of the growing number of Airbnbs in Havana, and people were friendly, even if governments are not: When I said I was from the United States, I inevitably got a big grin and a reference to a cousin in Miami or New York or Cleveland.Plus, extra credit goes to a country that so lovingly preserves old American cars. I rode in from the airport in a pink 1954 Cadillac.In another sign of flexibility, Cuba recently hammered out a deal with Major League Baseball that will allow Cuban players to travel legally to the U.S. and play on American teams.Yet, sadly, the Trump administration is threatening the deal.Consider the persistence of North Korea and Cuba, and there’s an argument that sanctions and isolation preserve regimes rather than topple them. China teaches us not to be naïve about economic engagement toppling dictators, but on balance tourists and investors would be more of a force for change than a seventh decade of embargo.Moreover, trade, tourism, travel and investment empower a business community and an independent middle class. These are tools to destabilize a police state and help ordinary Cubans, but we curtail them. America blames the Castros for impoverishing the Cuban people, but we’ve participated in that impoverishment as well.Cuba’s government is not benign. It’s a dictatorship whose economic mismanagement has hurt its people, and Human Rights Watch says it “routinely relies on arbitrary detention to harass and intimidate critics.” But it doesn’t normally execute them (or dismember them in consulates abroad like our pal Saudi Arabia), and it tolerates some criticism from brave bloggers like Yoani Sánchez.It is revising its Constitution, and my hope is that over time — despite ideologues in both Havana and the United States — relations will continue to develop. Some American seniors who now winter in Florida could become snowbirds in Cuba instead, relying on its health care, low prices, great beaches and cheap labor. You can hire a home health care aide for a month in Havana for the cost of one for a day in Florida.China’s economic boom began in the early 1980s partly with factories financed by Chinese overseas, and after the American embargo ends, Cuba will have similar opportunities to forge mutually beneficial business partnerships with Cubans overseas.That would benefit both sides. For 60 years we’ve been feuding, like the Hatfields and the McCoys, in a conflict whose origins most Americans don’t even remember clearly.So come on. We should all be bored by a lifetime of mutual recriminations and antagonisms. Let’s put aside the ideology, end the embargo, tone down the propaganda and raise a mojito together.I propose a toast to a new beginning.Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.  @NickKristof • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Democratic electorate has shifted sharply to the left, taking many politicians along with it — willingly and unwillingly. By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.The most active wing of the Democratic Party — the roughly 20 percent of the party’s electorate that votes in primaries and wields disproportionate influence over which issues get prioritized — has moved decisively to the left. With all the attention that is being paid to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib and other new progressive voices in Congress, this may not seem like news, but we are only just beginning to realize the full significance of this shift.The Primaries Project at the Brookings Institution conducted extensive polling of 7,198 Democratic voters in the 2018 primaries and found that 60.4 percent described themselves as liberal, including 26.4 percent who said they were “very liberal.”In its most recent analysis, Gallup found that from 1994 to 2018, the percentage of all Democrats who call themselves liberal more than doubled from 25 percent to 51 percent.Over the same period, the percentage of Democratic moderates and conservatives fell steadily, with the share of moderates dropping from 48 to 34 percent, and of conservatives dropping from 25 to 13 percent. These trends began to accelerate during the administration of George W. Bush and have continued unabated during the Obama and Trump presidencies.In recent years, the internal pressures to hew to the left, driven largely by Democratic primary voters, have steadily gained strength.They include the determination to oppose all things Trump, especially his anti-immigrant policies, his racism and his religious bigotry; the rise of outspoken, well-educated liberals, many of them young; the #MeToo movement and Trump’s disrespect for women; the Occupy movement; the mobilization of anti-establishment voters by Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primaries; and the consistent exodus of more conservative white voters from the Democratic Party, supplanted by more politically liberal minority voters.The anti-establishment faction contributed significantly to the large turnout increases in Democratic primaries last year. Pew found that from 2014 to 2018, turnout in House primaries rose from 13.7 to 19.6 percent of all registered Democrats, in Senate primaries from 16.6 to 22.2 percent and in governor primaries from 17.1 to 24.5 percent.Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at Brookings, agrees with the analysis that core voters and activist leaders within the party are “moving leftward”:Medicare for All, free college, a universal jobs guarantee, a $15 minimum wage, an expansion of the EITC to the entire bottom half, workers on boards of directors, ending ICE, raising marginal tax rates to 70 percent are all big, bold leftist ideas and appear to be gaining currency.These “big, bold leftist ideas” pose a strategic problem for liberals and the Democratic Party, Sawhill, who published “The Forgotten Americans: An Economic Agenda for a Divided Nation” last year, wrote in an email:In my view, it’s a trade-off between exciting the base thereby insuring higher turnout vs. broadening the base to include independents and Republicans that don’t like Trump.Sawhill argues that if the goal of Democrats is victory, as opposed to ideological purity, they must focus on general election swing voters who are not die-hard Democrats.One key Democratic target, Sawhill observes, is the “well-educated, suburban women, many of them Republican, who voted for Democrats in the midterms.” Once Trump is gone, she continued, “they could easily return to their natural home in the Republican Party.”“Over the longer-term,” Sawhill continued,as millennials and minorities become an ever-larger proportion of the party, it will have a natural constituency that supports a new and bolder agenda, but the concentration of those voters in urban areas that are underrepresented in our electoral system will be a continuing drag on the party’s prospects.The extensive support among prospective Democratic presidential candidates for Medicare for All, government-guaranteed jobs and a higher minimum wage reflects the widespread desire in the electorate for greater protection from the vicissitudes of market capitalism — in response to “increasingly incomplete risk protection in an era of dramatic social change,” as the political scientist Jacob Hacker put it in “Privatizing Risk without Privatizing the Welfare State: The Hidden Politics of Social Policy Retrenchment in the United States.” Support for such protections is showing signs of becoming a litmus test for candidates running in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries.Polling by the Pew Research Center shows sharp movement in a progressive direction on key issues among many Democrats.Take liberalized attitudes on immigration as an example. From 2008 to 2018, the percentage of Democrats who said the government should create “a way for immigrants already here illegally to become citizens if the meet certain requirements” grew from 29 to 51 percent, while the share who said “there should be better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws” fell from 21 to 5 percent.Similarly, the percentage of Democrats who agreed with the statement that “racial discrimination is the main reason many blacks can’t get ahead these days” rose from 28 to 64 percent from 2010 to 2017.Paul Starr, a sociology professor at Princeton, warns against putting too much stock in the ascendance of progressive Democrats. In an essay in the American Prospect, Starr argues that there were “two distinct developments” in the 2018 elections:While progressives have gained ground in long-held Democratic areas, more centrist candidates have won the more competitive districts. This second development will limit how far to the left the party can go. The more the party expands into the suburbs, the more dependent it will be on those relatively centrist votes — and that dependence will become a constraint on the policies that Democrats are able to agree on.In addition, while acknowledging the rise of the progressive wing, Starr pointed out that a separate December 2018 Gallup survey found that 54 percent of Democratic voters would prefer their party to become “more moderate,” while 41 percent said they would like the party to become “more liberal.”Along similarly cautionary lines, David Graham wrote in the Atlantic last November:There’s clear leftward movement among Democratic voters on a range of issues, and there are more progressive candidates running than ever. But this doesn’t amount, at least yet, to the socialist groundswell that advocates pine for and critics fear. The actual policy positions, and number of leftist officeholders, will remain limited — at least for now. What happens in 2020 could be more telling.Graham’s conclusion:The Democratic Party is moving left, but it might not be clear quite how far left for two or even six years. The revolution is coming more slowly than its champions hope and its critics fear.Matt Grossmann, a political scientist at Michigan State, noted in an email that the leftwardmovement is across the board on policy, ideological identification, and values, but remains furthest left on specific policy. The public movement seems to be strongest on race and gender issues as well as any proposal tied to Trump.Women, according to Grossmann, “are becoming a bigger part of the Democratic electorate and more supportive of women primary candidates.”The 2018 primary elections revealed the deepening strength of an anti-establishment insurgent faction, largely young, white and minority urban voters who turned out in droves in Democratic primaries from Omaha to Tallahassee and from the Bronx to Boston.Michael Capuano, a former mayor of Somerville, Mass. and a ten-term member of the House, learned the hard way how much the Democratic electorate has changed. As mayor in the 1990s, Capuano presided over the gentrification of the once scruffy, working class town. Initially, the city was grateful.When Capuano first won election to Congress in 1998, he owed his victory in the 10-candidate Democratic primary to his hometown. He carried Somerville with 7,852 votes, more than the total vote for all nine opponents, 6,253, while losing to other candidates in Boston, Belmont, Cambridge, Chelsea and Watertown.The impact of gentrification is striking.By 2017, 61.2 percent of Somerville’s residents 25 or older had at least a bachelor’s degree, compared with 30.9 percent nationwide. The median household income was $84,722, compared with $57,652 nationally.Somerville had moved from downscale to upscale, not to the level of Brattle Street in Cambridge or Boston’s Beacon Hill, but still many steps up the ladder.In the process, Somerville left Capuano, a white working class Democrat in the mold of Tip O’Neill, behind.In 2018, twenty years after first winning his House seat, Capuano could no longer count on Somerville. Despite his deep roots — his father had been mayor before him — the vote there was a wash. Capuano received 8,423 to 8,286 for his opponent, Ayanna Pressley, an African-American Boston city councilwomen.Pressley swept Cambridge and Boston to crush Capuano, 60,046 to 42,430 districtwide.The same pattern emerged in the widely publicized defeat of Joe Crowley, another 10-term incumbent, by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in the Democratic primary in a House district that straddles the Bronx and Queens.Steven Romalewski, who runs the mapping service at the CUNY Center for Urban Research, wrote me by email that “Ocasio-Cortez did best in areas such as Astoria/Steinway and Sunnyside, which happen to be more white than other parts of the district,” a point he elaborated upon in a story quoting him posted on The Intercept:You can also see that most of her votes, the strongest vote support, came from areas like Astoria in Queens and Sunnyside in Queens and parts of Jackson Heights that, number one, were not predominantly Hispanic, so they’re a more mixed population, and are areas where — this is kind of a term of art — are in the process of being gentrified, where newer people are moving in,Grace Segers, writing in July on the City & State website, noted that Crowley fell victim to gentrification and that force may upend expectations in Democratic primaries throughout Manhattan and western Brooklyn and Queens. And the rise of younger voters who are newer to their districts and unattached to incumbents could power insurgent candidates throughout New York City.David Freedlander, writing in Politico Magazine, captured the unanticipated voting patterns that gave rise to Crowley’s defeat. “Ocasio-Cortez’s best precincts,” Freedlander wrote, were highly educated, whiter and richer than the district as a whole. In those neighborhoods, Ocasio-Cortez clobbered Crowley by 70 percent or more.Conversely, Crowley did best in “the working-class African-American enclave of LeFrak City, where he got more than 60 percent of the vote.” In fact, Crowleypulled some of his best numbers in Ocasio-Cortez’s heavily Latino and African-American neighborhood of Parkchester, in the Bronx — beating her by more than 25 points on her home turf.Jerry Skurnik, a New York political consultant, describes gentrifying communities outside Manhattan as experiencing an influx of “people who really want to live in Greenwich Village but can’t afford to.”This younger, well-educated constituency — predominately but not exclusively white — is hostile to cautious establishment Democrats, especially to older white men, and they are determined to engineer an intraparty cultural and ideological insurgency.The emergence in force in 2018 of these insurgent Democrats grows in part out of the Sanders presidential campaign. Sanders mobilized millions of voters, many of whom did not want the Democrats to nominate a candidate with deep ties to party regulars and to the major donor community.Maps of primary voting patterns in 2016 and 2018 produced by CUNY’s Graduate School of Journalism and the Center for Urban Research show that Sanders beat Clinton in just a handful of New York City neighborhoods. Many of those Sanders neighborhoods are in Ocasio-Cortez’s district and they are the communities that provided her biggest margins of victory.Sanders also carried Somerville in 2016, 12,247 to 9,016, where support for Capuano imploded two years later.If the turnout patterns in the Ocasio-Cortez and Pressley districts are even modestly predictive, the Democratic Party may be changing in significant ways.Tom Kiley, who conducted polling for Capuano, described in an email the shifting makeup of the Democratic electorate in the Seventh District of Massachusetts:Mike did best among older, white, non-college educated Democrats who, for the most part, still described themselves as liberals or moderate liberals.Pressley’s base, Kiley wrote, was overwhelmingly made up of liberal, college-educated, white voters, especially those under 45 who did not have a history of voting in off-year elections. We were expecting what we considered a robust turnout of 75,000 for the day after Labor Day. In fact it ballooned to over 100,000, largely on the strength of this younger white cohort.While the Boston-Cambridge-Somerville district is far more liberal than the national average, Kiley argued that trends there are likely to be replicated in many regions of the country. “These new voters will have a major impact in the Democratic nomination process in many states,” he wrote:The desire for change in general is huge, and Trump is a powerful accelerant. I have to believe these new voters aren’t going to just retreat after electing new members of Congress; they’ll come out in droves in the primaries next year. And they’ll be voting for change.While primary voters are normally predominately committed partisans with a long history of voting, in the Pressley-Capuano contest more than half of the voters had no record of previous primary voting (24 percent) or were recorded as voting in only one previous primary (29 percent).“If the Pressley campaign was banking on turnout, they certainly cashed in,” wrote Maeve Duggan, research director at the MassINC Polling Group, in an article posted on the website of WBUR, Boston’s NPR news station.“Some 106,556 voters in the 7th Congressional District cast ballots in the 2018 Democratic primary, compared with just 61,725 in 2014,” she continued, “and among the district’s 2018 primary voters, only 37 percent had also voted” in 2014 primaries, according to voter file analysis.Duggan and the MassINC Polling Group analyzed the demographics of the first-time voters and found:They were predominantly women and young people: Fifty-five percent were women, and 66 percent were age 44 or younger (including 34 percent who were 18 to 29 years old).The surge of young voters had a powerful impact, increasingthe overall proportion of voters 44 or younger from 25 percent in 2014 to 42 percent in 2018. Combining age and gender, women ages 18 to 29 made up the largest group of new voters, at 20 percent.The new voters, she found, “were more likely to be Asian or Hispanic, compared with the 7th’s repeat voters,” but, she noted, the state’s only majority-minority congressional district “still has a predominantly white voting base.”A July 2018 pre-election survey of voters in the Capuano-Pressley district conducted by WBUR-MassINC makes clear the importance of growing political participation among young voters. The survey found striking generational differences not only on the candidates but on issues.18-to-29-year-olds favored Pressley over Capuano 41-23 while those over 60 backed Capuano 59-28. Asked if they would be more or less likely to support a candidate who “made abolishing ICE a major priority,” young voters said “more likely” by 48-18 while older voters said it would make them “less likely” by 25-23.Both young and old supported a national health care program, but the margin of support versus oppose was larger (90-2) among young voters than among their elders (71-16).In a postelection analysis of the Ocasio-Cortez-Crowley contest, the Global Strategy Group found:White gentrified liberal areas went big for AOC and surged. Younger, white liberal areas contributed heavily to the margin of Ocasio-Cortez’s victory. Ocasio-Cortez won Hispanics.At the same time, according to their analysis, voters Crowley thought he could depend upon — “expected people, especially older primary voters — did not show up.”Joshua M. Zeitz, a historian whose most recent book is “Building the Great Society: Inside Lyndon Johnson’s White House,” argues that contemporary Democratic progressives are not insurgents, but in full accord with party tradition.In an essay in Politico, “Democrats Aren’t Moving Left. They’re Returning to Their Roots,” Zeitz argued thatWhat pundits today decry as a radical turn in Democratic policy and politics actually finds its antecedents in 1944. With the country fully mobilized for war, President Franklin Roosevelt called for “a second Bill of Rights … an economic Bill of Rights” that would entitle all Americans to a “useful and remunerative job,” “the right to earn enough to provide adequate food and clothing and recreation,” the “right … to a decent home,” “the right to adequate medical care” and the “right to a good education.”Sawhill looks at the ideological shifts in the Democratic electorate less from a historical perspective and more as a response to contemporary economic and social dislocation. Among both conservatives and liberals, Sawhill argued, there is “an intellectual awakening about the flaws of modern capitalism” — a recognition of the failings of “neoliberalism, the idea that a market economy with a few light guardrails is the best way to organize a society.” This intellectual climate may result in greater receptivity among voters to more radical proposals.The willingness of voters to support Democrats who are pushing initiatives like these will depend in large part, however, on the ability of candidates to assure the general electorate that their agenda is beneficial to all and not just to favored liberal constituencies. This will be difficult, given the fact that what is being proposed is a much larger role for government, and that those who are most in need of government support are in the bottom half of the income distribution and disproportionately minority — in a country with a long racist history. As a presidential candidate, Barack Obama was able to overcome this barrier twice, but the challenge should not be minimized.I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Rick GladstoneUNITED NATIONS — When António Guterres was selected over seven female candidates to lead the United Nations, deflating hopes for a first woman secretary general, he promised that the organization would move more forcefully to honor its ideals of gender equality.“Do not let us in the U.N. off the hook,” Mr. Guterres, a Portuguese statesman and longtime United Nations diplomat, said in pledging to change what he acknowledged was a male-dominated world, including within the far-flung reaches of a patriarchal United Nations system. “Keep our feet on the fire.”The International Center for Research on Women, a Washington-based rights and advocacy group that advises the United Nations, has been seeking to do just that. It devised recommendations for measuring what progress Mr. Guterres has made in shaping a more feminist United Nations, and translated them into letter grades.After 2017, his first year, Mr. Guterres got a C-plus. On Wednesday, the group issued the secretary general’s second-year grade. It was only marginally better: B-minus.“He has done a number of things he has said,” said Lyric Thompson, director of policy and advocacy for the center, who helped write the report. Still, she said in a telephone interview, Mr. Guterres could be a far more influential figure on gender equality as the leader of the 193-member United Nations.“What we want to see is the power of the pulpit,” she said. “He has to set the tone that is going to be the agenda for the long haul.”Ms. Thompson acknowledged the challenges Mr. Guterres faces promoting women’s rights among member states where increasingly authoritarian, male-dominated governments seem to be on the rise.“He is the male executive who is head of a system that he acknowledged is powered by patriarchy,” she said. “It is going to take transformation of the entire system.”In a 39-page report card titled “Progress Under Threat,” the women’s group commended Mr. Guterres for advancing gender parity — including among his executive staff — and for taking steps to combat sexual exploitation and harassment within and outside the United Nations. Mr. Guterres has repeatedly promised a “zero-tolerance approach to sexual harassment.”The report also commended him for avidly using social media to promote women’s equality and for speaking about women “as active agents of change, not simply victims of discrimination and violence.”But the group faulted what it described as a penchant for opacity and secrecy in the United Nations bureaucracy that has not significantly changed under Mr. Guterres.“He is lagging in transparency and freedom of information,” Ms. Thompson said.For example, she said, it was difficult to ascertain how much money and other resources the United Nations has put into promoting gender equality and women’s economic empowerment — one of the Sustainable Development Goals it has aspired to achieve by 2030.“Resourcing is often the easiest indication of the extent to which an issue is a priority,” Ms. Thompson said.The report also criticized Mr. Guterres for not taking steps to create an independent system to handle complaints of sexual harassment and other wrongdoing by United Nations staff — a criticism that other advocacy groups have also made.As with other accusations of workplace wrongdoing, the prosecution of sexual harassment complaints falls to the United Nations Office of Internal Oversight Services, an in-house investigations and auditing arm.The report said that Mr. Guterres had expressed support for an independent system, “but this support has not been subsequently affirmed and interviews with his staff do not indicate any plans to incorporate” such a basic change.Commenting on the report’s conclusions, Farhan Haq, a spokesman for Mr. Guterres, said in an emailed statement: “We are pleased to note that the I.C.R.W. has acknowledged an improvement in our overall handling of gender concerns, and we agree that much more needs to be done within the U.N. system in the pursuit of gender equality.“At the same time,” he continued, “we believe the secretary-general has achieved considerable progress within the complex U.N. system at achieving real reforms to make the U.N. a better workplace for women and men alike.”The statement enumerated Mr. Guterres’s achievements, including equal numbers of men and women among top officials in the Secretariat and “half of the secretary-general’s special representatives around the world.” It also reiterated his “zero-tolerance approach to sexual harassment as well as his determination to strengthen our prevention and response efforts.”The report’s release came less than a week after publication of the first survey of sexual harassment within the United Nations, commissioned by Mr. Guterres, which showed a third of respondents reported experiencing at least one incident in the past few years. Most were sexually offensive stories or jokes.Only 17 percent of the United Nations staff responded to the survey, however, possibly cloaking the true extent of harassment within the organization. In a letter to all employees, Mr. Guterres said the low response rate was a sign that “we still have a long way to go before we are able to fully and openly discuss sexual harassment.”Still, he said, the survey showed “our common resolve to eradicate sexual harassment and ensure a safe workplace.”The United Nations, like other large organizations in the era of the #MeToo Movement, has been jolted recently by some high-profile workplace sexual harassment scandals.In December, for example, a panel of experts investigating allegations of sexual abuse at the United Nations agency fighting AIDS called for the appointment of new leadership, asserting in a damning report that the agency’s executive director, Michel Sidibé, had fostered a cult of personality marked by “favoritism, preferment and ethical blindness.”In another case, Kingston Rhodes, the chairman of the International Civil Service Commission, which regulates salaries and working conditions for United Nations staff members, resigned in mid-December, two weeks before his planned retirement, after allegations he had created a hostile workplace for women.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAppreciationsThe Times columnist and author was a true American original. By Robert B. Semple Jr.Mr. Semple is a member of the editorial board. There’s a story the writer Russell Baker, who died this week at 93, told about himself that reveals a lot about him. Back in 1961 — “in the time of Lyndon Johnson’s vice-presidential agony,” as Russ once put it in The New York Review of Books — he encountered the former Senate majority leader outside Mr. Johnson’s Capitol Hill office. Russ had covered Congress for several years and was well known on the Hill as a reporter for The Times. Johnson clapped his back, mauled his hand, massaged his ribs, “just as he’d always done in the glory days of old, all the time hailing me as though I were a long-lost friend” before inviting him in for an interview. The essence of what Johnson wanted to tell him was that he had come to love the Kennedys, which Russ knew to be claptrap, since the Kennedys, Johnson felt, had pretty much knifed him at the 1960 convention. Russ sensed a big scoop anyway. At some point during the monologue Johnson scrawled a few words on a scrap of paper and sent it out to his secretary. The note came back, Johnson looked at it, crumpled it up, tossed it in a wastebasket and resumed talking. Russ learned on his way out what was on the note. It said: “Who is this I am talking to?” “My vanity needed that blow,” Russ recalled in his book, “The Good Times.” “Like so many Washington newspaper people, I had begun to kid myself that these terribly important people talked so readily to me because of my charm. I needed to be reminded that they were not talking to me at all; they were talking to The New York Times.” If I have standing at all on the matter of Russ Baker, it is not that we overlapped at The Times for 35 years, in Washington and New York; it is that for over a decade, in the Johnson and Nixon years, he was my neighbor in Northwest Washington, his house across 39th Street a stone’s throw from mine. His mother-in-law, who lived with the Bakers, was our babysitter, and from time to time after returning her home, Russ and I would share a nightcap or two, after which I would retrace as best I could the path just taken with Mimi’s mother. As the Johnson story suggests, Russ was a modest man. He became famous with the publication of “Growing Up,” the account of his impoverished childhood, his strong-willed mother who kept urging him to “amount to something” and his satisfaction at eventually (he hoped) having achieved her ambition. He had many celebrated writer friends — Nat Benchley, David Halberstam, Pat Conroy, Murray Kempton — some of them acquired in Nantucket, where he owned a fine old house on Main Street. But there was not an ounce of pretense in him. On occasion I would open the kitchen door and find Russ and Mimi in my backyard, Russ armed with a bottle of Gordons in case I’d run out. “This is a Baltimore drop-by,” he would say, a usage I haven’t located on Google but which was apparently a reference to the neighborliness fostered by the densely packed rowhouses in Baltimore, where he did much of his growing up. Then there was the Buick. When I learned of Russ’s death, two images immediately popped to mind. One was of a blue Buick Electra parked outside his house. Sometimes I would ride in it to and from The Times office. He loved that Buick. Buicks were not then or now a wildly fashionable car. He said he drove one because he had always regarded a Buick as a quintessentially reliable American car that signified a certain level of middle class prosperity but didn’t put on airs. The second memory was of Russ, standing outside The Times’s Washington Bureau, pointing a bony finger northward up 17th and asking, of all those buildings which one, do you suppose, is the public school? Of course it was a dilapidated multistory firetrap. For all the symbols of prosperity — the nice houses, the Buick — Russ had a deep, implacable sympathy for those left behind. His favorite senator (and good friend), was Eugene McCarthy, as liberal as a mainstream politician could get in those days, a man who, according to Russ’s children, could be found from time to time nodding off on the Bakers’ living room couch.Nor was he a cheerleader for management. Although he loved The Times, and greatly appreciated what the Sulzberger family had done to rescue it from one disaster or another, so strong were his memories of the squalid pay at The Baltimore Sun, where he started his career, and his suspicion of bosses generally, that he remained forever proud of his membership in The Newspaper Guild, the industry union. In that regard I would urge aspiring journalists to read “The Good Times,” which is fundamentally a book about a period in newspapering’s predigital history, before reporters and columnists became little cottage industries with regular talking-head TV gigs, when the pay was low, when there was a bottle of Jack Daniels in the lower left hand drawer and when there was fun to be had chasing stories and complaining about editors. Read it, too, for the exquisitely restrained yet wonderfully accurate powers of observation he brought to his writing. Herewith Richard Nixon on the campaign trail: “There were darknesses in his soul that seemed to leave his life bereft of joy. He was a private, lonely man who never seemed comfortable with anyone, including himself, a man of monumental insecurities for whom public life, I thought, must be a constant ordeal.” In those two sentences lie a good part of the explanation for Watergate. What did he make of President Trump? According to Allen Baker, one of his sons, who spoke to me Wednesday from Russ’s home in Leesburg, Va., The New York Review of Books invited Russ’s thoughts on the matter. Dispirited by Mimi’s death a few years ago, his own failing health, and, one suspects, Mr. Trump himself, Russ declined to weigh in. He did, however, contribute to a pre-election essay in The Review about the campaign, in which he described Mr. Trump as having captured the Republican Party and referred to his “contempt for serious politics” and his “swinishness.” Of course, he would have found Trump appalling, in both personality and policy. But I believe he would have reserved almost as much scorn for the Senate, for abdicating its historic duty to provide a counterweight to the White House. In 2004, in a piece called “Troublemaker,” Russ wrote a review of “Losing America,” a book by Robert Byrd, the legendary curmudgeon from West Virginia, heartily praising Mr. Byrd for standing up in 2002 (unlike John Kerry, for instance) to George W. Bush’s appeal for Senate authorization to invade Iraq.Mr. Byrd, he thought, was a throwback to the days when “a senator was somebody,” when the upper chamber’s grandees were men named Goldwater, Humphrey, Symington, Dirksen, Fulbright, Kerr, Bridges, Long, Stennis, Thurmond — some of them southerners and racist, but all of them feeling they had a role at least equal to whoever occupied the White House in shaping domestic and foreign policy. As Russ (and Mr. Byrd) admitted, the Senate has not always exercised that power intelligently. It caved to its old leader, Lyndon Johnson, on the Tonkin Gulf Resolution, and again in 2002, when Dick Cheney and Colin Powell hornswoggled it into believing that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. Yet the present Senate, even its more articulate Democrats, seems alarmingly feeble and unprincipled in the face Mr. Trump’s demagogy. Anyway, I told Allen, I thought that’s where his dad would have come out. And by the way, I asked him, did his father still drive a Buick? “Yes,” Allen said. “It’s right outside the window. A Buick LaCrosse. Waiting for him to come back.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this article said that Mr. Baker had declined an offer from The New York Review of Books to share his thoughts about Donald Trump. Mr. Baker declined to address the Trump presidency, but he did contribute to a pre-election essay in the publication about the campaign. In that article, he discussed Mr. Trump's capture of the Republican Party and his contempt for serious politics.Robert B. Semple Jr., the associate editor of the Editorial Page, was previously the editor of the Op-Ed Page and worked as a correspondent for The Times in Washington, London and elsewhere for 20 years.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Winnie Hu[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]When Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo abruptly called off the L train shutdown, he upended years of careful planning to ensure that 275,000 displaced riders were not left stranded in an L-pocalypse.Now, even as officials forge ahead with a widely debated alternate plan, many transit advocates are calling for those contingency measures — more bus and ferry service, new bike lanes, traffic restrictions — to be put in place even with no shutdown. The planned changes, they say, are still needed in a growing city facing critical transportation challenges from congestion to a broken subway system.Why turn back, they say, when so much of the groundwork is done. Bike routes have been expanded. Bus lanes have been painted, and the skeletons of bus fare machines have been installed on sidewalks. New bus and ferry services have been announced.“What we have in front of us is a city that has to expand our transportation system,” said Ydanis Rodriguez, the chairman of the City Council’s transportation committee. “We have an opportunity to become the most pedestrian- and cyclist-friendly city in the whole nation.”But critics counter that some of the changes would turn their neighborhoods into testing grounds for transit experiments that focus largely on moving commuters, and that the plans should be re-evaluated and weighed against the safety, health and quality of life of residents.Across the country, cities are grappling with similar issues as they try to reimagine their aging and increasingly inefficient transportation networks for modern needs. Many cities have overhauled subways and buses to attract more riders, and redesigned streets to make more room for cyclists, pedestrians and green spaces. They have embraced a host of initiatives to raise money for public transportation and reduce congestion and pollution.San Francisco has transit-only lanes on 30 miles of streets and plans to add 20 more miles in the next decade. It has even highlighted some busy lanes with red paint to make them more visible to drivers, resulting in fewer cars blocking the lanes, transit officials said.Portland, Ore., is spending millions to promote walking and cycling in its downtown area, and working to make bus service faster and more reliable. It has also offered incentives to commuters to take alternative transportation, including a program that gives free transit passes to those who turn in their city-issued parking permits.“Major cities across the country face the same challenges, and they are likely to only get worse unless we take action now,” Chloe Eudaly, Portland’s transportation commissioner, said. “Investment in our active transportation infrastructure and increasing ridership on public transit is critical to preserving and maintaining the livability of our city and our planet.”In New York, there are more alternatives than ever for subway riders who tire of delays and overcrowding. Ferry routes will serve all five boroughs next year. New bus lanes are being installed at an average of seven miles a year, for a total of 111 miles so far, with city officials planning to pick up the pace. The city’s network of bike lanes has grown to 1,240 miles, including 300 miles of bike lanes added to streets since 2014 alone.But the 15-month shutdown of the L train had been the catalyst for faster and more sweeping changes. It spurred the installation of more Manhattan crosstown bike lanes — cyclists complain that there are not enough — on 12th and 13th Streets, and a bike lane on Delancey Street to keep cyclists moving on and off the Williamsburg Bridge, the city’s busiest bicycle bridge crossing with 7,300 trips per day.The city’s first “busway,” or bus-only corridor, was designed to restrict car and truck traffic on 14th Street. Officials also planned to impose high-occupancy-vehicle requirements on the Williamsburg Bridge: Private vehicles with fewer than three passengers — including taxis and ride-hailing cars — would be barred from using the bridge between 5 a.m. and 10 p.m. to make room for a fleet of new temporary buses carrying displaced L riders.Under the alternate plan backed by Mr. Cuomo, weekday L train service — including during morning and evening rush hours — will remain unchanged, and repairs will be carried out at night and on weekends, according to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.The agency plans to increase bus and subway service — including on the G, M and 7 lines — to accommodate L riders affected by the construction, but has not yet released specific details. Shams Tarek, an M.T.A. spokesman, said no final decisions had been made on other specific plans or services in the previous shutdown plan.An M.T.A. draft memo obtained recently by Streetsblog NYC suggested that there would no longer be a need for the temporary buses over the Williamsburg Bridge and the new ferry service. Mr. Tarek said the memo was outdated and that options were still being studied.Veronique Hakim, the M.T.A.’s managing director, said the agency was seeking public input and working with city officials to come up with a new plan “serving the needs of our customers while being sensitive to local communities.” The plan would be constantly monitored and adjusted as needed, she added.“New Yorkers can be certain that the alternate service plan for the new and improved L project will include additional transportation options designed to accommodate every affected L customer,” she said.[Can you name an M.T.A. board member? No, really. Name one.]Still, Joseph P. Schwieterman, a professor of public service at DePaul University, said that without the pressure of a looming shutdown, “there is now a risk that momentum will be lost,” adding that “planning for bus lanes, better ferries and more bike options is hard enough without sudden shifts in policy.”City officials would not answer questions about whether specific contingency measures would go forward or the costs incurred in planning for the shutdown.Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a recent news conference that the city was evaluating the new L train plan to decide “if there’s anything that we were planning that is no longer needed because of the L train, but that we might want to do anyway.”The mayor has made improving bus service a priority, and many transit advocates said he could start by keeping the new bus lanes that are already on the ground.“It would be lame to peel a bus lane off after pledging in his state of the city to get bus riders moving,” Jon Orcutt, a former city transportation official, said. “These are standing city policies and — L train shutdown or no L train shutdown — they should continue to be city policies and programs.”Even without a shutdown, commuters will need backup options during “the great L train slowdown” on nights and weekends, said Danny Pearlstein, a spokesman for the Riders Alliance, a grass-roots group of transit riders. He added, “We can’t just go back to the norm and pretend nothing’s happening.”The uncertainty about the alternate plan has also raised concerns among New Yorkers. On the Lower East Side, residents had braced for more gridlock and air pollution from the temporary buses over the Williamsburg Bridge. Now they do not know what to expect. Susan Stetzer, the manager of a local community board, said she remained concerned “about all the unknowns.”The 14th Street Coalition, which represents more than two dozen residential buildings, block associations and businesses in the West Village, Chelsea and Flatiron neighborhoods, has called for officials to abandon the plans for a busway and wider pedestrian areas on 14th Street — which in some places would narrow the street to two lanes from four lanes — and restrictions that would divert car and truck traffic to nearby streets. Some residents also want the crosstown bike lanes on 12th and 13th Streets removed.Judy Pesin, 66, a member of the coalition, said the 14th Street changes would restrict deliveries to homes and businesses, slow down emergency vehicles, and make it harder for older people, parents with young children and those with disabilities to access cars.“Clearly the change in plans means it’s time to listen to the community,’’ she said, “because the commuters are still going to have a moving L train.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEconomic ViewBy Justin WolfersWhen President Trump delivered his State of the Union address on Tuesday, he could quite justifiably say that the state of the economy was good.Unemployment is low, inflation is muted and growth has continued unabated for nearly 10 years. As a college professor, I’m often drawn to giving letter grades, and would give the United States economy an A-, with the potential for a better grade if the economic gains had been distributed more evenly.But Mr. Trump controls economic policy, not the economy, and so a fairer report card would also assess his actual policies.To provide a nonpartisan appraisal, I’ve reviewed surveys of about 50 leading economists — liberals and conservatives — run by the University of Chicago. What is startling is that the economists are nearly unanimous in concluding that Mr. Trump’s policies are destructive. That is why many economists are uneasy about his presidency, even though the economy earns solid grades.Mr. Trump’s protectionist impulses place him squarely at odds with the economic wisdom that tariffs are harmful. Worse, by imposing tariffs on goods  like aluminum and steel Mr. Trump’s trade policy has also damaged the competitiveness of American manufacturers. None of the economists taking part in the surveys agreed with the claim that these tariffs would “improve Americans’ welfare,” and all of them said global supply chains had made these tariffs more costly than they would have been in the past.The United States started a trade war with China and China quickly retaliated, raising tariffs on American-made goods. Mr. Trump also created needless uncertainty with his threat to rip up the North American Free Trade Agreement that binds the United States, Canada and Mexico. The threat yielded a substitute deal that market economists believe will do little more than replicate the previous one, and it is unclear that Congress will pass it.Criticism of Mr. Trump’s protectionist instincts is widespread. When he said on Twitter that he was “Tariff Man,” financial markets tanked. An analysis conducted by the president’s own Council of Economic Advisers has reportedly concluded that his tariffs will reduce economic growth. Even by Mr. Trump’s own preferred metric, the balance of trade, his policy has failed: The trade deficit has risen to a 10-year high.The logic of fiscal policy is straightforward: In good times, the government should spend less, so that in bad times it can afford to spend more and tax less, helping to support an ailing economy. When private-sector demand falls, government picks up the slack.On this score, Mr. Trump’s fiscal policy is a colossal failure. His signature achievement is a $1.5 trillion tax cut that provided stimulus when, arguably, it was least needed. As a result, the budget deficit is atypically high for a healthy economy, and rising government debt will make it hard for fiscal policy to provide a boost when the next downturn hits.Mr. Trump might argue that the point of the tax cut wasn’t to provide a short-term stimulus, but rather to promote long-term economic growth. However, economists say that it will fail to do that, too. In a survey before the bill was passed, all but one expert said the tax cut wouldn’t lead gross domestic product “to be substantially higher a decade from now.” Darrell Duffie, the lone dissenter, said it would boost growth, but he added that “whether the overall tax plan is distributionally fair is another matter.”The problem, according to Daron Acemoglu, a prominent macroeconomist, is that while “simplification of the tax code could be beneficial,” that effect would most likely be “more than offset by its highly regressive nature.” Recent data support this pessimism, as the much-promised investment boom the tax cut was supposed to deliver appears not to have materialized.It is worth noting that the one part of Mr. Trump’s platform that received a strong endorsement from economists — his promise of infrastructure spending — has languished, despite the possibility of bipartisan support.For a president, monetary policy should be simple: Appoint good people, and let the Federal Reserve do its job. Mr. Trump has got half of this right. Jerome Powell, his pick for Fed chairman, has so far proven to be adept. In a recent survey, 43 percent of economists gave Mr. Powell’s leadership an A, and 51 percent gave him a B (with the remaining 6 percent giving him a C). Mr. Trump’s other Fed appointments have been mainstream, yielding a cast of policymakers that Jeb Bush might have appointed had he been elected president.But Mr. Trump has dragged down his grade in this category by meddling in ways that have needlessly complicated the Fed’s job. Most industrialized countries, including the United States, have generally insulated monetary policy from political pressure, believing that such independence helps policymakers deliver low and stable inflation. Yet Mr. Trump has repeatedly criticized Mr. Powell for not setting interest rates lower, and has reportedly raised the possibility of firing him. The president is playing a self-defeating game, because he is making it harder for Mr. Powell to deliver low rates without appearing to have been bullied by Mr. Trump.Mr. Trump isn’t just pushing against one or two threads of economic consensus. Instead, his program is an almost complete repudiation of the orthodoxies endorsed by Democratic and Republican economists.Put the pieces together, and all of this presents a puzzle: If economic policy is so bad, why is the economy doing so well?Perhaps it reflects good luck rather than good judgment. Mr. Trump’s luck was to inherit an economy that had been on a steadily improving glide path since around 2010. Charting nearly any economic statistic shows that today’s economic strength represents a continuation of that trend.Even if Mr. Trump doesn’t deserve credit for this trajectory, he should get some credit for not knocking the economy off this path. Unless, of course, the real explanation is that the president doesn’t have much effect on economic outcomes.The more frightening explanation is that the downside of Mr. Trump’s policies are yet to become evident. The chaos of his administration’s policy process has created uncertainty and probably scared off some investors, although their absence is difficult to measure. In addition, Mr. Trump’s unfunded tax cuts are creating a debt that future generations will have to repay. And by undermining the Fed’s independence, he may have made it less effective at fighting inflation.That’s not all.Cutting regulations in the financial sector may help big banks today, but it could increase the chances of future financial crises. Eliminating environmental regulations has probably improved results for some businesses while speeding climate change. And while impeding immigration may have reduced competition for jobs, many economists worry that in the longer run, reducing the number of immigrants will lead to less innovation and growth.Of course, I should admit a final possibility: Perhaps Mr. Trump has got it right, and the economists have gotten it all wrong. As a card-carrying economist, I don’t believe this, but it seems that, in equal measure, Mr. Trump doesn’t believe what economists say, either.Justin Wolfers is a professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan. Follow him on Twitter: @justinwolfers.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe ShiftBy Kevin RooseThe gig economy’s work force is fighting back, and in some cases, it’s winning.On Wednesday, Instacart, the Silicon Valley upstart that delivers groceries and other household items to customers through an app, reversed a tipping policy that had outraged workers, who accused the $7 billion company of cheating them out of rightfully earned wages.“We heard loud and clear the frustration when your compensation didn’t match the effort you put forth,” Apoorva Mehta, Instacart’s chief executive, wrote in an open letter to Instacart’s contract workers, known as shoppers.Instacart’s workers had taken to Reddit forums and private Facebook groups to express their anger with the policy, which counted tips toward the guaranteed minimum payments the company offered to shoppers. In some cases, the more customers tipped, the less Instacart paid them.“It’s offensive, it’s unethical, and in this climate it’s a very dumb thing to do,” Matthew Telles, an Instacart courier in Chicago, said this week before the reversal.In the letter to shoppers, Mr. Mehta apologized for the tipping policy, which he called “misguided.” He said that from now on, Instacart would calculate tips separately from base pay. He also said the company was putting new minimum payments into effect: at least $5 for orders that require only delivering an item, and $7 to $10 for orders that involve picking items off supermarket shelves.In addition, Instacart said it would retroactively compensate workers who had lost base pay as a result of the old tipping system.The victory at Instacart, which will ultimately affect thousands of workers, is just the latest in a string of successful pressure campaigns by workers for gig economy platforms. Drivers for Uber and Lyft in New York successfully agitated for a citywide minimum wage that went into effect this week. Postmates, another high-flying start-up, recently settled a class-action suit with thousands of delivery workers who contested the way the company classified them as contract workers.[Subscribe to “With Interest.” It’s a Sunday newsletter with essential business insights that’ll prep you for the week ahead.]It’s no secret that many modern gig workers exist in a state of permanent precarity, with few legal protections, unstable working conditions and pay that varies based on who’s flush with venture capital money that week. Most gig economy workers are still classified as contract workers, meaning that they aren’t covered by federal minimum wage laws and other labor protections.Still, by organizing en masse and expressing vocal opposition to exploitative policies, they have managed to wring some concessions out of the billion-dollar corporations whose labor they provide.For Instacart, the drama began late last year when it changed its method for paying its contract workers.Until then, Instacart’s shopper pay was determined by an algorithm that factored in a fixed base payment for each order, along with a per-item bonus and extra payments for certain tasks, such as delivering over long distances. After the change late last year, Instacart presented shoppers with a single, itemized “earnings estimate,” and guaranteed them a $10 minimum payment for each batch they accepted.But Instacart shoppers began to notice that for some orders, the tips that customers had added during checkout were being counted toward their $10 minimum, rather than being paid out on top of them.Angry shoppers collected shocking examples of low pay, like a receipt submitted by an Instacart shopper who appeared to have been paid a total of $10.80 after a $10 tip. (Instacart claimed that the payment was an “edge case,” and that it was putting new policies in place to prevent similar incidents.)In another example, two identical Instacart batches paid out $10 — the guaranteed minimum — even though one delivery earned a $2 tip and the other a $6 tip. In the case of the $2 tip, Instacart’s “batch payment” came to $8; in the case of the $6 tip, Instacart paid only $4.“We started to notice customers who said they tipped, but a lot of times we wouldn’t see the tips,” said Kaylania Chapman, a worker in Orlando, Fla., who delivers orders for both Instacart and DoorDash, a rival delivery app with a similar tipping policy.The workers’ complaints started to be picked up by news outlets including Fast Company and NBC. And they caught the attention of Working Washington, a union-backed labor group in Seattle, which collected more than 1,500 signatures of Instacart shoppers who objected to the company’s pay practices. Some began asking for cash tips outside the app, while others encouraged customers to leave 22-cent tips — a nominal amount meant to show solidarity with workers — through the app and then adjust the tips higher after a delivery was made.On Wednesday, after the announcement that Instacart was changing its policies, a representative from Working Washington, Sage Wilson, said, “In the space of two weeks, Instacart workers came together, sparked a national media sensation and transformed the entire pay model of a $7 billion corporation.”DoorDash, which is valued by investors at $4 billion, has not announced plans to change its tipping policy, which dates to 2017.“DoorDash’s pay model provides transparency, consistency and predictability,” a company spokeswoman said on Tuesday. “Since implementing this pay model more than a year ago, we’ve seen a significant increase in dasher retention, percentage of on-time orders and dasher satisfaction.”After Instacart’s announcement on Wednesday, the DoorDash spokeswoman declined to comment.Many Instacart shoppers were thrilled by the company’s about-face. In a private Facebook group, some celebrated their successful campaign to get the company to change its tipping policy and make them whole on previous payments.“I can’t believe it! Back pay!” one shopper wrote.“THIS is why you stand up for yourself against corruption,” wrote another.“I’m very excited that we got Instacart to listen to our complaints,” said Ashley Knudson, an Instacart shopper in Seattle. “I feel like we have some work to do, and we’re not going to back down until we get the consistency that we need in our batch payments. We consider this a small victory, for acknowledging their mistreatment, but we look forward to pushing onward and having our voices be heard.”Many gig economy workers still face economic insecurity and exploitative platform policies, of course, and lawmakers may ultimately need to come to their rescue. (On Tuesday, Representative Ro Khanna, a Democrat who represents parts of Silicon Valley, told BuzzFeed News that Instacart’s now-defunct tipping policy was a “deceptive business practice that should end.”)But ultimately, it may be up to customers to demand more accountability and worker-friendly policies.Elizabeth Haslam, a DoorDash customer in California who has spent more than three years placing orders from the delivery service, said on Tuesday that she was “shocked” to learn about the company’s tipping policies.“It made me really angry that I was contributing to a company that would do that,” she said. “And it makes me wonder how many other services are doing the same thing.”Kevin Roose is a columnist for Business and a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. His column, “The Shift,” examines the intersection of technology, business and culture. @kevinroose • FacebookAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Binyamin AppelbaumWASHINGTON — President Trump in 2018 repeatedly urged the Federal Reserve to stop raising interest rates, warning that its “crazy” policies were jeopardizing the economic expansion.This week, the Fed stopped. The central bank did not raise its benchmark rate at its first meeting of 2019, and said it had no plans to raise rates in the foreseeable future.The Fed’s newfound patience delighted the White House, and Wall Street. It was seen as a concession to the Fed’s critics, and as a boost for an economic expansion that is on the verge of becoming the longest in the nation’s modern history.“We have, by far, the strongest economy in the world!” Mr. Trump exulted Friday morning on Twitter.But the details of the Fed’s decision suggest less cause for celebration.Jerome H. Powell, the Fed’s chairman, said Wednesday that the Fed was pausing not because it embraced Mr. Trump’s argument that the economy was in ruddy health, but because the expansion faced growing threats, including from the impact of Mr. Trump’s own policies.Among these, Mr. Powell listed the trade war with China and the risk of another government shutdown.In effect, the Fed concluded the expansion might not survive the combination of more rate increases and Mr. Trump’s economic policies, so it pulled off the road to reduce the risk of a crash.For the moment, of course, there is little practical difference between the White House view that rates should stay low because the economy is strong and the Fed view that rates should remain low because the economy is fragile. The tension will resume if growth revives.The Fed’s shift also stopped well short of the president’s stated preferences.The central bank still raised rates four times in 2018, in the face of Mr. Trump’s warnings, and Mr. Powell said Wednesday that he thought those increases were warranted. Friday’s report that the economy added 304,000 jobs in January suggests that the Fed hasn’t yet choked the economy.The Fed similarly stopped short of accepting Mr. Trump’s advice that it should “stop with the 50Bs,” referring to its policy of reducing its bond portfolio by about $50 billion each month.While saying it would continue reducing its holdings for now, the Fed was at pains to reassure investors that it stands ready to adjust the policy as necessary and that it is likely to stop sooner than previously expected.Mr. Trump picked Mr. Powell to serve as the Fed’s chairman. But last year, as interest rates rose and the stock market declined, the president repeatedly attacked Fed policy as “crazy,” “wild” and “loco.” He fretted to aides that Mr. Powell would “turn me into Hoover,” a reference to the president during the early years of the Great Depression, and he asked aides whether he could replace the chairman.Mr. Trump’s attacks on the Fed are not easily assembled into a coherent critique. But some lieutenants have advanced the argument that the administration’s economic policies are expanding the labor force and increasing productivity, resulting in economic growth without inflation.In this view, the Fed should leave interest rates at a low level to allow the expansion to continue.“My hope is that the Fed, under its new management, understands that more people working and faster economic growth do not cause inflation,” Larry Kudlow, the head of the National Economic Council, said last year. He added that the Fed should increase interest rates “very slowly.”Administration officials also blamed the Fed’s policies for causing the wobbles in financial markets last year.Mr. Powell, by contrast, said on Wednesday that the economic outlook was deteriorating for reasons unrelated to the Fed’s policies. He pointed to storm clouds including economic weakness in China and Europe and tightening financial conditions, as well as the impact of Mr. Trump’s policies.He made the nuanced point that the Fed still regards solid economic growth as the most likely outcome for the coming year but that result is now somewhat less likely.“At such times, common-sense risk management suggests patiently awaiting greater clarity,” he said.The persistent sluggishness of inflation, which has remained below the Fed’s preferred 2 percent annual pace since the 2008 crisis, also played a role. Mr. Powell said the Fed had the luxury of being patient because the risk of higher inflation “appears to have diminished.”“It seems to me that what’s happened is the Fed is saying, ‘We’re more concerned now about the secular stagnation issues than inflation at this moment,’” said Lewis Alexander, the chief United States economist at Nomura. “And I think to be perfectly frank that’s a perfectly reasonable place for them to be.”Analysts said the negative reaction of financial markets after the Fed’s previous meeting, in December, was a particularly important factor. The Fed raised rates and predicted two more increases in 2019. Mr. Powell also emphasized the Fed’s commitment to reducing bond holdings, which some investors saw as overly aggressive.“They were planning on roaring forward with this balance sheet roll-off, and the market is like: ‘Oh, my God! That will crush the economy!’” said Julia Coronado, a former Fed economist and the president of MacroPolicy Perspectives. “And so they recalibrated. Good.”Mohamed A. El-Erian, chief economic adviser at the financial firm Allianz, said the Fed’s decision Wednesday “came as absolutely no surprise.” Since the global financial crisis, he said, the Fed has backed down each time investors objected to the tightening of monetary policy.Among those moments: the 2013 “taper tantrum” and the decision to postpone rate increases in 2016.“It’s watching the same movie over and over again,” he said.The question, Mr. El-Erian said, is whether the Fed should be listening to the markets.“If you believe that the market is signaling something genuine about the economy that the Fed has not yet understood, then it’s not a bad thing,” he said. “If, however, you believe that the market has gotten used to having the Fed as its rich uncle, then this is a bad thing.”Some Fed officials appear more receptive to the kind of arguments advanced by Mr. Kudlow, notably Richard Clarida, who became the Fed’s vice chairman in September and said in a November speech that he saw some signs of a stronger trend in productivity growth.Other Fed officials said last summer, when there were fewer risks to the economic outlook, that the central bank should keep raising rates into restrictive territory to slow what they saw as unsustainable growth.Mr. Powell has sought to push the question into the future, suggesting he is open to either possibility. He has said the Fed will not respond to wage growth as a sufficient sign of inflationary pressure. Similarly, he said Wednesday that evidence of inflation would be a “big part” of any case for more rate increases.The problem for Mr. Powell is that monetary policy exerts a gradual influence on economic conditions, meaning that policymakers must calibrate policy based on forecasts.Sooner or later, Mr. Powell will need to decide what he thinks about Trumponomics.Follow Binyamin Appelbaum on Twitter: @BCAppelbaum.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jonathan Martin and Abby GoodnoughWASHINGTON — Senator Elizabeth Warren spoke at length this week about her vision for improving the American health care system, like strengthening the Affordable Care Act and making prescription drugs more affordable. Twice, though, she ignored a question posed to her: Would she support eliminating private health insurance in favor of a single-payer system?“Affordable health care for every American” is her goal, Ms. Warren said on Bloomberg Television, and there are “different ways we can get there.”To put it another way: I am not walking into that political trap.Ms. Warren of Massachusetts and three other liberal presidential candidates support a Medicare for All bill, which would create a single-payer health plan run by the government and increase federal spending by at least $2.5 trillion a year, according to several estimates. But Ms. Warren’s determination to sidestep an essential but deeply controversial issue at the heart of the single-payer model — would people lose the choices offered by private insurance? — illustrated one of the thorniest dilemmas for several Democrats as the 2020 primary gets underway.[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]Their activist base, inspired by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, believes that the party should unabashedly pursue universal health care, ending private insurance entirely. But polls indicate that the broader electorate, particularly the moderate- and high-income voters who propelled the party’s sweeping suburban gains in the midterms, is uneasy about this “Medicare for all” approach in which many would lose their current insurance options and pay higher taxes.Senator Kamala Harris of California drew immediate attacks from Republicans this week by taking on the issue that Ms. Warren dodged. Ms. Harris breezily acknowledged in a CNN town hall forum that she would “eliminate all of that,” referring to ending private insurance in a country where almost 60 percent of the population receives coverage through an employer.Her remark triggered an intraparty debate about an issue that until now had been largely theoretical: A decade after Democrats pushed through the most significant expansion of health care since the Great Society, should they build incrementally on the Affordable Care Act or scrap the insurance sector entirely and create a European-style public program?Four Democratic presidential candidates — Ms. Harris, Ms. Warren, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey — are among the co-sponsors of Mr. Sanders’s Medicare for All bill, which would replace the Affordable Care Act with a single government health plan for all Americans. Medicare is the federal program providing health coverage to people 65 and older.The concept of Medicare for all has become popular with Democrats: 81 percent support it, according to a recent Kaiser poll. Yet voter opposition to surrendering the insurance they are used to led to a backlash over President Barack Obama’s repeated promise that “if you like your plan, you can keep your plan” after it proved false for several million people under his health law. Many Democrats are keenly aware of that backlash, and the 2020 presidential race will be the first where many of the party’s leading candidates will have to explain and defend the meaning of Medicare for all.For now, as Ms. Warren demonstrated, many candidates do not want to wrestle publicly with the details. After Ms. Harris’s comment, her aides hastened to add that she would also support less sweeping changes to health care; like most other candidates, Ms. Harris declined an interview request. And by Friday, Mr. Booker, hours after announcing his presidential bid, sought to curtail the matter by offering a brisk “no” when asked if he supported eliminating private coverage.Yet there is one likely 2020 contender who is thrilled to discuss Medicare for all.Mr. Sanders, in an interview, did not mince words: The only role for private insurance in the system he envisioned would be “cosmetic surgery, you want to get your nose fixed.”“Every candidate will make his or her own decisions,” Mr. Sanders said, but “if I look at polling and 70 percent of the people support Medicare for All, if a very significant percentage of people think the rich, the very rich, should start paying their fair share of taxes, I think I’d be pretty dumb not to develop policies that capture what the American people want.”But Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor who is considering a 2020 bid on a centrist Democratic platform, said it would be folly to even consider a single-payer system. “To replace the entire private system where companies provide health care for their employees would bankrupt us for a very long time,” Mr. Bloomberg told reporters in New Hampshire on Tuesday.The Congressional Budget Office has not scored Mr. Sanders’s Medicare for All bill, but a study last year by the Mercatus Center of George Mason University predicted it would increase federal spending by at least $32.6 trillion over the first decade. The cost could be even greater, the study says, if the bill overestimated the projected savings on administrative and drug costs, as well as payments to health care providers.The divide between Mr. Sanders, a democratic socialist, and Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican-turned-independent-turned-Democrat, reflects the large chasm in a party that has been reshaped by President Trump.The president’s hard-line nationalism has simultaneously nudged Democrats to the left, emboldening them to pursue unambiguously liberal policies, and drawn independents and moderate Republicans to the party because they cannot abide his incendiary conduct and demagogy on race. These dueling forces have created a growing but ungainly coalition that shares contempt for Mr. Trump but is less unified on policy matters like health care.And these divisions extend to what is wisest politically.Liberals argue that the only way to drive up turnout among unlikely voters or win back some of the voters uneasy with Hillary Clinton’s ties to corporate interests is to pursue a bold agenda and elevate issues like Medicare for all.“Those who run on incremental changes are not the ones who are going to get people excited and get people to turn out,” said Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, the co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus.And by preserving their options, Democrats risk alienating liberal primary voters, some of whom consider support for Medicare for all a litmus test.“The center is not a good place to be on these policies anymore,” said Mary O’Connor, 61, a substitute teacher and horse farmer in Middleburg, Va., who wants a single-payer system. “I’ll be watching extremely closely, and I will most likely jump on board and volunteer for whoever it is that’s going to be the most forceful for this.”But moderates believe that most Democratic primary voters are more fixated on defeating Mr. Trump than applying litmus tests — and that terminating employer-sponsored insurance would only frighten the sort of general election voters who are eager to cast out Mr. Trump but do not want to wholly remake the country’s health care system.“Most of the freshmen who helped take back the House got elected on: ‘We’re going to protect your health insurance even if you have a pre-existing condition,’ not ‘We’re going to take this whole system and throw it out the window,’” said Kenneth Baer, a Democratic strategist.While polling does show that Medicare for all — a buzz phrase that has lately been applied to everything from single-payer health care to programs that would allow some or all Americans to buy into Medicare or Medicaid — has broad public support, attitudes swing significantly depending on not just the details, but respondents’ age and income.On the House side, a bill similar in scope to Mr. Sanders’s is under revision and will soon be reintroduced with Ms. Jayapal as the main sponsor. Other Democrats have introduced less expansive “Medicare buy-in” bills, which would preserve the current system but would give certain Americans under 65 the option of paying for Medicare or a new “public option” plan. Another bill would give every state the option of letting residents buy into Medicaid, the government health program for poor Americans.The buy-in programs would generally cover between 60 and 80 percent of people’s medical costs and would require much less federal spending because enrollees would still pay premiums and not everyone would be eligible. Some proponents, like Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, have described them as a steppingstone on the way to a full single-payer system; some of the Democrats running for president are co-sponsoring these “Medicare for more” bills as well as Mr. Sanders’s.Mr. Sanders has suggested options to raise the money needed for his plan, such as a new 7.5 percent payroll tax and a wealth tax on the top 0.1 percent of earners. He has also predicted several trillion dollars in savings over 10 years from eliminating the tax exclusion that employers get on what they pay toward their workers’ insurance premiums, and other tax breaks.But Robert Blendon, a health policy professor at Harvard who studies public opinion, said it would be wise not to delve into financing details for now.“The reason it failed in Vermont and Colorado was taxes,” Professor Blendon said, referring to recent efforts to move to a near-universal health care system in those states, which flopped resoundingly because they would have required major tax increases. “But Democratic primary voters will not go deep into asking how these plans will work. What they will say is, ‘Show me you have a principle that health care is a human right.’”The general election will be a different story, Professor Blendon added. If Ms. Harris were to become the Democratic nominee and keep embracing the idea of ending private coverage, he argued, “she’s going to have terrible problems.”The difficulty for Democrats, added Ezekiel Emanuel, a former Obama health care adviser, is that many voters look at the health care system the same way they view politics. “They say Congress is terrible but I like my congressman,” as Mr. Emanuel put it.According to the Gallup poll, 70 percent of Americans with private insurance rate their coverage as “excellent” or “good;” 85 percent say the same about the medical care they receive. The Kaiser poll found that the percentage of Americans who support a national health plan drops by 19 percentage points when people hear that it would eliminate insurance companies or that it would require Americans to pay more in taxes.Among those who make over $90,000 a year — the sort of voters in the House districts that several Democrats captured in the midterms — those surveyed in the Kaiser poll were particularly wary of an all-government system: 64 percent in this income group said they would oppose a Medicare for all plan that terminated private insurance.“My constituents are tired of bumper sticker debates about complex issues,” said Representative Lizzie Pannill Fletcher of Texas, a freshman from an affluent Houston district. “We don’t want ideologues in charge.”In Vermont, where former Gov. Peter Shumlin shelved his ambitious plan for a single-payer system in 2014 after conceding it would require “enormous” new taxes, advocates for universal health care are now resigned to a more incremental approach.Dr. Deb Richter, a primary care doctor who helped lead the state’s single-payer movement, said that while the Democratic field is “going to have to face the T word,” being upfront about the required tax increases, she now thinks phasing in a government-run system is a better approach.“There’s ways of doing this that don’t have to happen all at once,” she said, pointing to a push in Vermont to start with universal government coverage for primary care only. “But you need to talk about the end goal: We are aiming for Medicare for all, and this is a way of getting it done.”Maggie Astor contributed reporting from New York.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHis populist attacks on the priorities of the “ruling class” have set off a maelstrom.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.Competing notions of American national identity are coming to dominate American politics.On Jan. 2, a searing Tucker Carlson monologue on Fox News resonated across every corner of the conservative movement.“The goal for America is both simpler and more elusive than mere prosperity,” Carlson told his audience. “Dignity. Purpose. Self-control. Independence. Above all, deep relationships with other people.”President Trump is one of the most dedicated Fox viewers in the country. Carlson went on:Our leaders don’t care. We are ruled by mercenaries who feel no long-term obligation to the people they rule. They’re day traders. Substitute teachers. They’re just passing through. They have no skin in this game, and it shows. They can’t solve our problems. They don’t even bother to understand our problems.Carlson, who is in a ratings race with both his Fox colleague Sean Hannity and MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow, argued that many conservatives have scant understanding of the adversity faced by members of the working and lower middle class in America:The idea that families are being crushed by market forces seems never to occur to them. They refuse to consider it. Questioning markets feels like apostasy. Both sides miss the obvious point: Culture and economics are inseparably intertwined. Certain economic systems allow families to thrive. Thriving families make market economies possible.Carlson pointed specifically to problems faced by rural white America, the crucial base of Republican voters: “Stunning out of wedlock birthrates. High male unemployment. A terrifying drug epidemic.” How, Carlson asked, “did this happen?” You’d think our ruling class would be interested in knowing the answer. But mostly they’re not. They don’t have to be interested. It’s easier to import foreign labor to take the place of native-born Americans who are slipping behind.Despite this failing of conservatism, Carlson contended that only the Republican Party can lead the country back to salvation:There’s no option at this point. But first, Republican leaders will have to acknowledge that market capitalism is not a religion. Market capitalism is a tool, like a staple gun or a toaster. You’d have to be a fool to worship it. Our system was created by human beings for the benefit of human beings. We do not exist to serve markets. Just the opposite. Any economic system that weakens and destroys families is not worth having. A system like that is the enemy of a healthy society.The Carlson monologue became an extended subject of debate, which my Times colleague Ross Douthat also examined. For example, in “The Right Should Reject Tucker Carlson’s Victimhood Populism,” David French, a senior writer at National Review, argued that “it is still true that your choices are far more important to your success than any government program or the actions of any nefarious banker or any malicious feminist.”“If an obscure senator gave this speech, he’d be famous overnight,” Kyle Smith, a critic at large for National Review, wrote the next day. “Carlson scores some major points, and like most great speeches this one can’t easily be dismissed as either left or right-wing.”Carlson touched nerves well outside conservative circles. I asked Dean Baker, co-founder of the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research, for his response to the monologue. He replied: “It’s a bit scary to me how much of this I agree with.” Baker quibbled with some minor points, butignoring these off the mark comments, he is absolutely right that the leadership of both parties has largely embraced an agenda that serves the rich with little concern for average workers.In addition to Carlson, one of the most engaged critics of the Republican establishment is Oren Cass, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute and the author of “The Once and Future Worker.”In his book, Cass faults both parties, but his condemnation of the Democratic Party is far harsher than his critique of the Republican Party:Republicans have generally trusted that free markets will benefit all participants, prized the higher output associated with an ‘efficient’ outcome, and expressed skepticism that political actors could identify and pursue better outcomes, even if any existed. Their labor-market policy could best be described as one of benign neglect.Democrats, in contrast,can sound committed to a more worker-centric model of growth, but rather than trusting the market too much, they trample it. The party’s actual agenda centers on the interests advanced by its coalition of labor unions, environmentalists, and identity groups. Its policies rely on an expectation that government mandates and programs will deliver what the market does not. This agenda inserts countless regulatory wedges that aim to improve the conditions of employment but in the process raise its cost, driving apart the players that the market is attempting to connect.In a Salon review of “The Once and Future Worker,” Samuel Hammond, director of welfare policy at the libertarian Niskanen Center — a Washington a think tank I described last week — writes:Indeed, far from the usual conservative manifesto, ‘The Once and Future Worker,’ is a scathing critique of globalization, open immigration, and the commoditization of labor — forces which Cass believes have ransacked working class fortunes across three decades of neoliberal hegemony.Cass is eager to place himself at the disposal of both parties. He was one of 13 ideologically ambidextrous authors of a joint Brookings-American Enterprise Institute report, “Work, Skills, Community: Restoring Opportunity for the Working Class.” The November 2018 study pointed to areas of concord between segments of the right and the left.The 13 authors found common ground on a set of proposals that call for both more spending and tougher work requirements. These proposals include expanding the earned-income tax credit to cover childless workers, including experimenting with a new wage subsidy; getting recipients of government subsidies back to work, including beneficiaries of means-tested government programs; and enlarging eligibility for the child and dependent care tax credit.While it is possible, in theory, that Carlson and Cass could support Democratic candidates, they sharply disagree with the Democratic Party on the highly salient issue of immigration.In his book, Cass writes:The United States should limit increases in its supply of unskilled immigrant labor. This new approach would require first and foremost that criteria for allowing entrance into the country emphasize education level — attainment of a college degree, in particular.In the case of undocumented immigrants, Cass’s policy would be to “require unskilled illegal immigrants to leave.”Carlson is more extreme. On Dec. 4, Carlson told viewers that “a new analysis of census data shows that sixty-three percent of noncitizens in the U.S. receive some kind of welfare benefits,” before adding:Every night, hundreds of thousands of our citizens, Americans, sleep outdoors on the street, they’re homeless. The country’s middle class is shrinking and dying younger. The third year in a row. Again, these are American citizens. Some of them probably think they should have first dibs on help from the government, but they’re not getting it.Later that month, Carlson escalated his claim that immigration was too costly for Americans:It’s indefensible, so nobody even tries to defend it. Instead, our leaders demand that you shut up and accept this. We have a moral obligation to admit the world’s poor, they tell us, even if it makes our own country poor and dirtier and more divided.These comments proved highly controversial, to say the least. According to Business Insider, 16 companies stopped advertising on “The Tucker Carlson Show.”Michael Massing, a New York-based writer who often reports on the intersection of media and politics, watched Carlson for several nights after the January monologue in an attempt to assess where Carlson really stood. In a Feb. 2 article in the Guardian, Massing wrote:Overall, his show continues to transmit Fox’s toxic blend of race-baiting and reality distortion, through which it has done so much to poison the American mind. What, then, to make of Carlson? Is he a cynic? A hypocrite? A headlong pursuer of ratings? Perhaps he’s best described as a charter member of the same ruling class that in his monologue he indicted for working so intently to divide and confuse the American people.In addition to the discrete conservative factions Cass and Carlson represent, there is another dissident wing of conservatism, represented by the Niskanen Center, which attempts to appeal to moderates and centrists of both parties.“Working within the broad and diverse intellectual tradition of liberalism, we are fashioning a new synthesis that closes the rift within that tradition that emerged over the question of socialism,” Brink Lindsey, the center’s vice president for policy, wrote in an essay seeking to explain the broad goals of the organization.Lindsey, in contrast to Cass, is far more critical of the contemporary right than of the left.Over the course of the 21st century, the conservative movement, and with it the Republican Party, has fallen ever more deeply under the sway of an illiberal and nihilistic populism — illiberal in its crude exploitation of religious, racial, and cultural divisions; nihilistic in its blithe indifference to governance and the established norms and institutions of representative self-government. This malignant development made possible the nomination and election of Donald Trump, whose two years in power have only accelerated conservatism’s and the GOP’s descent into the intellectual and moral gutter.Despite his severe view of the Republican Party, Lindsey contends that the goal of the Niskanen think tank is the “reimagining of the center-right”:It is our goal to make the case for a principled center-right in American politics today that is distinctly different from either movement conservatism or its degenerate, populist offshoot.One question, of course is, what kind of policy options a center-right think tank can offer to disaffected voters on matters involving race and immigration, subjects that help drive the very polarization they regret.One of Tucker Carlson’s own primary concerns is immigration — and, as a likely subtext, race.Carlson argues that capitalism is “not a religion but a tool like a toaster or staple gun.” He is focusing attention, in fact, on the godless capitalism that Will Wilkinson of the Niskanen Center, described in “How Godless Capitalism Made America Multicultural” — a problem that Wilkinson correctly points out affects “all wealthy, liberal-democratic countries.”Wilkinson explains:The project of fashioning an ethnoreligious American identity has always been in conflict with a dominant and defining American impulse: to get rich. The United States has always been a distinctly commercial republic with expansionary, imperial impulses. High demand for workers and settlers led early on to a variegated population that encouraged the idea, largely traceable to Tom Paine, that American national identity is civic and ideological rather than racial and ethnic.Contemporary political polarization reflects the intensification of the endless struggle to integrate America and, more recently, to assimilate millions of newcomers, some legal, some not.Wilkinson addresses this conundrum:Assimilation is an issue not because it isn’t happening, but because it is. The issue is that the post-1968 immigrants and their progeny are here at all. And their successful assimilation means that American culture, and American national identity, has already been updated and transformed.This process can be very hard for some people, especially white voters over 50 (a strong Trump constituency) to accept:Swift and dramatic cultural changes can leave us with the baffled feeling that the soil in which we laid down roots has somehow become foreign. Older people who have largely lost the capacity to easily assimilate to a new culture can feel that the rug has been pulled out from under them.The result, according to Wilkinson, to whom I will give the last word, is thatrapid cultural change can make a truly common national identity hard to come by, if not impossible. It’s not clear to me how important it is to have one. But it does seem that a badly bifurcated cultural self-understanding can have very dramatic and potentially dangerous political consequences. David Cameron imperiled the integrity of the entire European Union by fundamentally misunderstanding the facts about the evolution of British national identity and putting it up for a vote. Donald Trump, you may have noticed, has called for a referendum on American national identity, and he’s getting one.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe G.O.P. needs to finally figure out, or at least start figuring out, exactly what it stands for on health care policy.By Peter SudermanMr. Suderman is features editor at Reason.Judging by exit polls, the single most effective midterm issue for Democrats was health care — in particular, the argument, made by Democratic candidates across the country, that Republicans were out to eliminate the Affordable Care Act’s regulations governing pre-existing conditions.So when a Texas judge ruled in December that the entirety of the health law was unconstitutional, he ensured that this issue, and this argument, would remain front and center heading into the 2020 election. Legally speaking, the ruling is weak, and the case may be tossed in the appeals process. But if it travels all the way to the Supreme Court, it would effectively guarantee that health care remains politically potent throughout the presidential campaign. You can expect the Democrats’ cast-of-thousands presidential field to all swear to protect Obamacare’s pre-existing conditions rules — and President Trump to demonstrate his usual command of the finer points of health care policy in response.The ruling thus represents a challenge for Republicans — but also an opportunity. At least in theory, it could force the party to finally figure out, or at least start figuring out, exactly what it stands for when it comes to health care policy.The empty mantra of “repeal and replace” — which was all but buried by the midterms — was never a stand-in for an actual shared vision for the governance of health care in the United States. At the moment, the party seems confused about what, exactly, American health care policy should look like.That confusion extends beyond Obamacare to Medicare (which President Trump has ruled off limits) and Medicaid (which the repeal bills tried and failed to restructure), as well as to the tax deduction for employer-sponsored insurance around which health care policy has contorted for so many decades.It’s not that there’s a shortage of ideas: Conservative think tanks have health policy white papers to spare, and have for years. All the way back in 2012, for example, you could find the right-of-center health policy scholars James Capretta and Robert E. Moffit outlining principles for an Obamacare replacement in the journal National Affairs. Their plan called for limiting the tax break employers get for offering health coverage, converting existing public coverage programs to premium support (essentially a subsidy) while promoting competition among private plans, protecting people who maintain continuous coverage from spikes in premiums, and allowing states more flexibility to opt in and out of national health care initiatives.The Cato Institute’s Michael Cannon has long called for the creation of large Health Savings Accounts that would significantly increase the amount of money individuals could put into tax-free accounts for medical expenses, including health insurance, potentially giving millions of people an optional exit from employer-sponsored insurance.What connects these ideas is that they are not merely bullet-pointed lists of policy tweaks; they are frameworks for thinking more broadly about what federal health policy can, and perhaps should, be.That sort of thinking — about both general principles and the specific policy components necessary to make them a reality — is exactly what the Republican Party lacks, and what it desperately needs.It’s true that some Republican lawmakers have cobbled together proposals of varying degrees of specificity over the year: During his 2016 campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida sketched out a mostly forgotten health care plan that would have set up a broad-based system of refundable tax credits intended to subsidize the purchase of insurance in hopes of helping people buy coverage. And during the 2017 Obamacare repeal effort, Senators Lindsey Graham and Bill Cassidy offered a plan to give states far more flexibility, eliminating many of Obamacare's provisions at the national level while essentially turning the program into a block grant to the states.But these efforts have tended to be cursory and short-lived, with tiny or nonexistent constituencies. Few conservative lawmakers talk about them today, and it’s unclear whether many Republicans in Congress today even grasp the basics.Which is why, for all these ideas, if you ask Republican politicians what they stand for when it comes to health policy, you are likely to hear slogans like “patient centered” and “preserving the doctor-patient relationship” and possibly something about how Democrats want to “socialize Medicare” — as if the nation’s largest government health program is not already an essentially socialist enterprise.So it’s possible to imagine that at least some in the party will try to resolve, or at least start acknowledging, some of these questions. More likely, given the state of the G.O.P. under Trump, who is no one’s idea of a wonk, is that Republicans will simply decline to pursue the issue with any force, and the shabbiness of the party’s current non-position will become even more glaring. Indeed, just this month, Mr. Trump continued to predict Obamacare’s demise, saying he believed that “it’s going to be terminated,” possibly as a result of the Texas case, and that in the aftermath, “a deal will be made for good health care in this country.” What sort of deal? I suspect that even (perhaps especially) the president doesn’t know.That sort of glibness, in turn, is likely to give already-ascendant Democratic ideas a boost. The party’s enthusiasm for Medicare for All has flourished recently in part because it exists in a vacuum, with little if any substantive competition from the right. There are serious practical and political impediments to making a transition to single payer, from the enormous increase in federal spending and the tax increases it would almost certainly entail to the disruption that would be caused by the elimination of current private health insurance coverage for millions of Americans.Yet by failing to make even a halfhearted case for an alternative, Republicans are helping to clear the path for their opponents. When the options presented are single-payer or “I don’t know,” it’s not surprising that many Americans would gravitate toward the former.In the meantime, the Texas case will ensure that the Republicans’ waffling and uncertainty on policy basics, like legal requirements regarding pre-existing conditions, remain in the spotlight. The red state attorneys general who brought the case may have imagined it was a clever way to highlight Obamacare’s flaws, but instead it shined a spotlight on their own.Peter Suderman is features editor at Reason.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Binyamin AppelbaumWASHINGTON — President Trump met Monday evening with the Federal Reserve chairman, Jerome H. Powell, whom the president has repeatedly criticized as jeopardizing economic growth by raising interest rates.It was the first meeting between the two men since Mr. Powell became the Fed’s chairman last year.The Fed said in a statement that the topics of discussion included “recent economic developments and the outlook for growth, employment and inflation.” The Fed’s statement emphasized that Mr. Powell did not discuss the Fed’s plans for monetary policy with the president, “except to stress that the path of policy will depend entirely on incoming economic information.”The meeting, at the White House, was described as an “informal dinner,” lasting about 90 minutes. The Fed’s vice chairman, Richard Clarida, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin were also in attendance.Mr. Trump repeatedly urged the Fed last year to stop raising interest rates, and to stop reducing its bond holdings, warning that its “crazy” policies were jeopardizing the economic expansion. The Fed did not heed the advice, raising its benchmark rate four times in 2018, most recently in December.As Mr. Trump grew increasingly angry, asking aides whether he could remove Mr. Powell from office and fuming that he was going to “turn me into Hoover,” a reference to the president who presided over the beginning of the Great Depression, his advisers suggested a meeting with Mr. Powell to ease the tensions.That meeting came — but after a sharp shift in the Fed’s trajectory. Last week the Fed announced that it did not plan to raise rates again for the foreseeable future.The Fed said it was pausing because of rising risks to economic growth, some of which are the result of Mr. Trump’s policies, including trade tensions with China and the threat of another government shutdown.Mr. Powell had indicated that he would meet with Mr. Trump, noting that meetings between presidents and Fed chairmen are not uncommon.He also has emphasized repeatedly in recent months that the Fed intends to make monetary policy without regard to the president’s opinions.“We’re always going to do what we think is the right thing,” Mr. Powell said at a news conference in January after the most recent meeting of the Fed’s policymaking committee. “We’re never going to take political considerations into account or discuss them as part of our work. We make mistakes but we’re not going to make mistakes of character or integrity. And I would want the public to know that and I would want them to see that in our actions.”The Fed’s statement on Monday night said Mr. Powell’s comments to the president were “consistent with his remarks at his press conference.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhen the Chinese government blocks foreign internet companies for political reasons, the United States should treat the tactic as the anticompetitive economic strategy that it is.By Tim WuMr. Wu is a law professor who specializes in technology.As China and the United States engage in high-level negotiations over a possible trade deal, it’s puzzling to see what’s been left off the table: the Chinese internet market. China blocks or hinders nearly every important foreign competitor online, including Google, Facebook, Wikipedia in Chinese, Pinterest, Line (the major Japanese messaging company), Reddit and The New York Times. Even Peppa Pig, a British cartoon character and internet video sensation, has been censored on and off; an editorial in the Communist Party’s official People’s Daily newspaper once warned that she could “destroy children’s youth.”China has long defended its censorship as a political matter, a legitimate attempt to protect citizens from what the government regards as “harmful information,” including material that “spreads unhealthy lifestyles and pop culture.” But you don’t need to be a trade theorist to realize that the censorship is also an extremely effective barrier to international trade. The global internet economy is worth at least $8 trillion and growing, yet the Trump administration has focused chiefly on manufacturing, technology transfers and agriculture, and does not seem to have pressed for concessions on this issue.Sheltered from American, Japanese and European competition, Chinese internet businesses have grown enormously over the past decade. Nine of the world’s 20 largest internet firms, by market value, are now Chinese. Some of this growth reflects the skill and innovation of Chinese engineers, a vibrant start-up culture and the success of Chinese business in catering to local tastes. But it’s hard to believe that this has been unaided by censorship.And the barriers to foreign competition have more than just economic effects. Without any better options, Chinese users are forced to put up with companies like Tencent, which owns the private messaging app WeChat, and the online payment company Ant Financial, whose privacy violations are, amazingly, even more troubling than those of Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. By tolerating Chinese censorship, the United States encourages other countries to do the same.When it joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, China agreed to a broad liberalization of trade in services, including data processing and telecommunications. China’s internet policies must be understood as a violation of these commitments. China will presumably counter that its internet policies are “necessary to protect public morals or to maintain public order,” invoking the relevant exception to the World Trade Organization’s rules. But while that exception might justify bans on gambling sites or even Peppa Pig, in the case of most of China’s internet barriers the real purpose seems to be the protection of homegrown business interests.Why is the United States not demanding change? It’s not as if we lack leverage. Chinese firms like Tencent and the online retailer JD.com have aggressively pursued operations in the United States, seeking to take advantage of our open internet and open market. The Office of the United States Trade Representative even cited Chinese internet blocking as a trade barrier in 2016. Why allow a country to do business here if it won’t let us do business there? The basic principle of trade policy is reciprocity: Lower your barriers and we’ll lower ours. When it comes to the internet economy, the United States has unilaterally disarmed and is being played for a fool.Particularly baffling is the attitude of the major American internet firms, the victims of China’s internet trade policy, whose strategy has largely been one of appeasement. Google did retreat from the Chinese market in 2010 because of concerns about censorship and industrial espionage, and it did complain for a while about Chinese obstructions. Yet last year we learned that Google was effectively giving up the fight, building a censored search engine for the Chinese market and begging for access. Also disappointing has been Facebook’s approach. Even though Facebook has been banned in China for years, Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, has made embarrassing efforts to ingratiate himself with China’s president, Xi Jinping. (At one point gossip pages even reported that Mr. Zuckerberg asked, in vain, for Mr. Xi to give an honorary Chinese name to his unborn child; Mr. Zuckerberg denied that this happened.)Appeasement does not make effective foreign policy or trade policy. The United States, with the world’s largest economy and its most important internet sector, should be negotiating from a position of strength. If the Trump administration wants to be tough with China on trade, it should demand meaningful access to the Chinese internet market, on pain of denial of access to American markets for Chinese firms.That is how trade negotiation has always proceeded, and the internet ought to be no exception. We otherwise run the risk of winning the battle for the past while surrendering the battle for the future.Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, a contributing opinion writer and the author of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe government has given a lot of money to major telecommunications companies without much regulatory accountability. By Christopher AliDr. Ali is an assistant professor at the University of Virginia.Since the 1930s, policymakers have known that rural communications is a “market failure” — something that happens when private companies cannot or will not provide a socially desirable good because of a lack of return on investment. At that time, electricity and telephone companies were simply unwilling to enter rural America: The population was too sparse and the geography too vast. As a result, President Franklin Roosevelt created the Rural Electrification Administration in 1936 to provide loans and grants to rural electric and telephone companies. It was a tremendous success: Within 20 years, 65 percent of farmers had a telephone and 96 percent of them had electricity. We have a similar problem with rural communications today — not with telephones or electricity but with broadband internet. In 2017, a full 30 percent of rural Americans (or 19 million people) and 21 percent of farms lacked broadband access. What we need today to solve this digital divide is a renewed federal commitment to rural communications. We need a national rural broadband policy, demonstrating that the United States is serious about becoming a fully connected nation. The Rural Utilities Service — the successor to the Rural Electrification Administration — has subsidized internet connectivity since 1995. It is one of two federal agencies charged with subsidizing rural broadband: The Federal Communications Commission provides about $8.8 billion per year in broadband subsidies (rural, tribal and low income) with at least $4.6 billion earmarked for rural. The Rural Utilities Service (a division of the Department of Agriculture) metes out about $800 million per year for rural broadband loans and grants. Last summer, Congress allocated an extra $600 million to the Rural Utilities Service to subsidize broadband projects for the most underserved communities. This is in addition to the $7.5 billion in rural broadband loans and grants provided by the 2009 Recovery Act.Despite the large amount of funding coming from the Rural Utilities Service and the F.C.C., rural America has not seen broadband deployed and adopted at the same speed and effectiveness that it had with electricity and telephone service almost a century ago. The reason for this lag is a lack of coordinated federal policies, which in turn has allowed major telecommunications companies to receive a large portion of these funds without much regulatory accountability. An opaque set of grant and loan stipulations make it difficult for communities to apply for funding, and in some states, a series of laws actively prohibit or inhibit towns and cooperatives from wiring their own communities. I recently traveled to the Midwest to find out where and how federal broadband policies have failed rural America. I spoke with residents, business owners, broadband providers, farmers and officials, and they all told me about the need for high-speed connectivity and a renewed federal strategy.On the trip, I learned how high-speed broadband keeps professionals living and working in rural America, like the insurance agent I met in Rock County, Minn., who no longer has to lease a second office to digitally file paperwork. It keeps rural businesses competitive, like the radio station in Rock County that no longer needs to subscribe to two Verizon accounts, paying over $1,000 per month for internet service. And it keeps rural students studying, since around 70 percent of teachers assign homework that requires an internet connection. Rock County is one example of how communities in rural America can take advantage of the opportunities afforded by broadband. Almost every state has a broadband deployment plan, Minnesota foremost among them. With so many plans, however, come as many definitions of broadband, target speeds, eligibility requirements for grants and a host of unique priorities. To ensure that high-speed broadband is available for all rural Americans, regardless of state, we need a national rural broadband plan. Standardizing state rural broadband policies isn’t enough: We need a plan to identify and galvanize stakeholders — not just the major telecommunications companies — to inspire change in our current policy approach and democratize the funding process, and to champion the cause of rural broadband across the country. President Franklin Roosevelt and the Rural Electrification Administration did it in 1936 with electricity. We can do the same today.A national rural broadband plan would designate a single agency — preferably the Rural Utilities Service, with its century-long relationship with rural communities and offices in every state — as the primary coordinator for rural broadband. Today we have two agencies — the F.C.C. and the Rural Utilities Service — with two different, and sometimes conflicting, agendas controlling a lot of money. A designated point agency is crucial to coordinate federal expenditures and to encourage more data sharing, collaboration and coordination between the F.C.C. and the Rural Utilities Service.This plan would mandate the creation of a new national broadband map, using granular and testable data rather than what we have now, where broadband providers report advertised rather than actual speeds to the F.C.C., and where broadband deployment is calculated by census block rather than by household. The F.C.C., which manages the current national broadband map, has grossly overestimated broadband deployment throughout the country because when a single building in a census block is reported to have broadband, the entire block is considered “served.”It would streamline the application for subsidies from the F.C.C., and grants and loans from the Rural Utilities Service, making it easier for small companies to apply. As one small provider told me, “You know, of all the things I’ve tried to do in my life, the hardest thing I’ve ever tried to do is to navigate” how to get funding from the Rural Utilities Service.We need to change the relationship between large telecommunications companies and federal subsidies. A national rural broadband plan would democratize the rural broadband subsidy system, abandoning the legacy rules that force the Rural Utilities Service and F.C.C. to give the bulk of subsidies to the major telecommunications companies, which deliver only the bare minimum speeds to comply with the law. This money should be provided on a competitive basis without reserving the bulk for the major companies and leaving the smaller ones, like local independent providers, cooperatives and municipalities to fight for the scraps. For example, CenturyLink receives over $505 million a year from the F.C.C. but by law needs to provide only the incredibly slow download speed of 10 megabits per second and upload speeds of one megabit. Those numbers are far below the current definition of “broadband,” which is download speeds of 25 megabits per second and upload speeds of three megabits. There are true heroes of rural broadband, like Alliance Communications, the cooperative that manages the fiber optic network in Rock County, Minn., and The People’s Rural Telephone Cooperative, which brought fiber-optic broadband to McKee, Ky., one of the poorest communities in the state. These local companies and cooperatives are more interested in serving their members and communities with a public service than in a short-term return on investment. There are so many who are in need of these providers, like farmers, who are all too often left out of the conversation but for whom broadband to the farm would mean a new era of American agriculture.Last, this national rural broadband policy would show the United States is serious about global competition in community connectivity, agriculture, data processing, telemedicine, education and a host of other industries. Our lack of universal broadband means we are losing that competition. We are losing because we are not taking all stakeholders into account. We are losing because of a lack of coordinated and coherent policies. We are losing because major telecommunications companies get the bulk of funding and fail to deliver. We are losing because the agencies in charge of rural broadband do not even know who has broadband and who does not.The reason rural broadband is at the level it is now is the ingenuity and vision of rural communities across the country. They are moving the broadband needle forward despite a lack of coordinated federal policies. Federal policies should give them a hand.Christopher Ali (@Ali_Christopher) is an assistant professor of media studies at the University of Virginia. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Michael TackettWASHINGTON — President Trump has proved himself adroit at creating villains to serve as his political foils. In his State of the Union address on Tuesday, he introduced a new one: socialists.Right after his calls to support the overthrow of Venezuela’s president, Nicolás Maduro, and condemning the “socialist policies” that have reduced the country “into a state of abject poverty and despair,” he made a quick segue to the home front.“Here in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country,” the president said, adding, “Tonight, we resolve that America will never be a socialist country.”Tuesday night’s speech contained more than a few suggestions of what Mr. Trump’s 2020 campaign could look like. The president dwelled on the economy, pointing to the low unemployment rate, continuing growth and the tax cut passed by the last Republican Congress. He spoke of trying to reduce prescription drug costs and battling H.I.V., perhaps with an eye to the kinds of suburban female voters who deserted Republicans in the midterm elections. And for his hard-core followers, he argued for the border wall.The threat of socialism was something new. But it could become the kind of rhetorical touchstone of his re-election campaign that sounding the alarm about “criminal illegal aliens” was in 2016.If it does, it could provide Mr. Trump with a potentially effective weapon in confronting an increasingly aggressive and more liberal Democratic Party, defining it through attacks on Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, who describe themselves as democratic socialists, and other members of the party pushing progressive policies like a 70 percent tax rate and “Medicare for all.”The president’s economic advisers began sounding the socialist alarm in the fall in a 72-page report criticizing what it described as the socialist ideas of leading Democrats, linking them with the failed economic policies of communist governments in China, the former Soviet Union and other countries. The word “socialism” appeared 144 times — on average, twice a page.The report by the White House Council of Economic Advisers, “The Opportunity Costs of Socialism,” did not prescribe any action but was meant to serve as a warning about the destructive economic policies that Mr. Trump believes Democrats would inflict on the United States.Policies like tuition-free college were mentioned in the same ominous tone as the atrocities committed by Vladimir Lenin and Mao Zedong. The report suggested that Democratic policies emulating Venezuela would cause the American economy to shrink by 40 percent, just as Mr. Trump did on Tuesday night.Yet there is no evidence of any growing public angst about socialism sweeping the United States. As a political philosophy and organizing tool, it took modest root in the country in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, but never gained widespread appeal. Eugene V. Debs, a labor leader from Terre Haute, Ind., was a five-time candidate for president, never to great effect, peaking at 6 percent of the vote in 1912.“You really have not had a self-consciously socialist movement of any size and influence since the 1930s,” said Michael Kazin, a professor of history at Georgetown University and the author of a history of the American left. “Clearly this is an attempt to portray Democrats as too radical for Americans and to connect them to Venezuela, which is of course a clever thing do since Venezuela is falling apart under an ostensibly socialist government.”But the supposed threat of creeping socialism — and the dangers posed by someone like Ms. Ocasio-Cortez — have become favorite talking points for conservatives like the TV personality Sean Hannity of Fox News, who tells his viewers that far-left socialism had taken over the Democratic Party. Mr. Trump is now firmly aligned with that view.“Most Americans are obviously not up on the distinctions between democratic socialists and communists,” Mr. Kazin said. “He, like other conservatives who had talked about the so-called Red Menace over the years, is trying to confuse the two things in people’s minds.”But that is not how conservatives look at the way Mr. Trump seems ready to portray Democrats.“From a political standpoint, he is defending free enterprise, free markets and freedom,” said Greg Mueller, a conservative strategist. “They want to take the country toward socialism and their party is divided on that and there is a major fight in their party over whether to be a socialist party.“This is a great debate for Trump to define in 2019 and the 2020 campaign,” he added.Republicans, with limited success, tried at times to label President Barack Obama a socialist, particularly for his call for higher taxes on the wealthy, Mr. Kazin said, noting that this effort coincided with a shift in public opinion where Americans viewed socialism more favorably.But a Gallup poll in August showed that Democrats had a more positive view of socialism than they do of capitalism, 57 percent to 47 percent. Their view has been relatively stable since 2010, but attitudes toward capitalism have become more negative, coinciding with the financial crisis that fueled animus toward the large banks and investment firms blamed for the economic devastation.Among Americans ages 18 to 29, the Gallup poll found, 51 percent were positive about socialism while 45 percent viewed capitalism favorably. Gallup noted there was a marked, 12-point decline in younger adults views on capitalism is just two years.“Every single policy proposal that we have adopted and presented to the American people has been overwhelmingly popular,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez told MSNBC late Tuesday. And she dismissed Mr. Trump’s criticism. “He feels himself losing on the issues,” she said, and now must engage in ad hominem attacks.But it was no accident that Mr. Trump chose to introduce the socialist menace in perhaps the highest-profile setting available to a president as the first step in trying to paint Democrats as too far left, just as they start to engage in a presidential nominating process that will shape the party’s image.And even some of the president’s harshest critics say he may be on to something.“The idea of throwing the socialist thing out there politically is pretty crafty because, truly, there is just enough truth in there to make it sticky and interesting,” said Mike Murphy, a Republican strategist and longtime Trump critic. “They are lurching left. For once, somehow, a little honesty crept into one of Trump’s proclamations. It’s code for the loony left.”An earlier version of this article misstated the year in which Eugene V. Debs won 6 percent of the vote for president. It was 1912, not 1916.Follow Michael Tackett on Twitter: @tackettdc.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBoth critics and defenders of the Green New Deal have a point.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.The Green New Deal is not a good piece of policy. But I’m glad it exists.I’m glad it exists because climate change and the stagnation of mass living standards are both defining challenges for this country. And the authors of the Green New Deal — Senator Ed Markey and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez — have the admirable ambition to take on both.The plan doesn’t ask what is politically possible today. It asks what needs to be done and tries to change the definition of politically possible. “Climate change is an unprecedented emergency that requires unprecedented action,” Michael Grunwald writes in Politico, “so America needs to try to do seemingly impossible things.”[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]The Green New Deal rightly rejects the choice between helping American workers and taking on climate change. The country needs to do both, and it can. By focusing on the terrifying state of the climate, the plan will likely nudge other Democrats toward their own ambitious climate proposals. So why isn’t it a good policy?Too little, too muchThe overview released by Markey and Ocasio-Cortez has two main flaws:Although the plan does a good job laying out the problem of climate change, it doesn’t offer a clear vision for a solution. It asserts that it will solve the problem and skips huge questions — like the roles of a carbon tax, nuclear energy and urban density. The proposal doesn’t need to get into details at this point, but it should at least move people closer to understanding what a solution will look like.The plan doesn’t merely argue that clean energy can create good-paying jobs (which it can). It includes a needlessly long wish list of progressive economic policies, including “economic security for all people” and the counteracting of “systemic injustices.”“The operating principle behind the Green New Deal is a no-enemies-to-the-left spirit of fostering unity among every faction of the progressive movement,” Jonathan Chait writes in New York magazine. “Thus, at the same time, the plan avoids taking stances that are absolutely vital to reduce carbon emissions, it embraces policies that have nothing to do with climate change whatsoever.”If this were a proposal from a leading presidential candidate or a party leader, it would be worrisome. But it’s not. It’s more akin to a gadfly. For all its flaws, the Green New Deal is a useful call to action. The question now is who can put together a better plan.Why it matters“Ella Kissi-Debrah was 9 when she died in 2013, after three years of asthma attacks so bad, they sometimes triggered seizures. In photos, her smile is broad and bright, her hair braided. She loved music and swimming, and dreamed of becoming a pilot,” writes Beth Gardiner, the author of a forthcoming book on air pollution, in an Op-Ed today. “Ella lived with her family just off London’s South Circular Road, a major thoroughfare that is clouded by the diesel fumes that make London’s air — like much of Europe’s — thick and foul-smelling. A scientist’s analysis found that many of her hospitalizations coincided with local pollution spikes.”If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook AdvertisementDavid Bernhardt, the agency’s acting chief, wants to roll back endangered-species protections on a tiny fish, a change that benefits few outside a California group he once represented as a lobbyist. Deputy secretary of the interior David Bernhardt, right, at a meeting of the Colorado Petroleum council in Denver in July.CreditCreditDavid Zalubowski/Associated PressSupported byBy Coral DavenportWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — As a lobbyist and lawyer, David Bernhardt fought for years on behalf of a group of California farmers to weaken Endangered Species Act protections for a finger-size fish, the delta smelt, to gain access to irrigation water. As a top official since 2017 at the Interior Department, Mr. Bernhardt has been finishing the job: He is working to strip away the rules the farmers had hired him to oppose. Last week President Trump said he would nominate Mr. Bernhardt to lead the Interior Department, making him the latest in a line of officials now regulating industries that once paid them to work as lobbyists. Others include Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist who now heads the Environmental Protection Agency after the resignation of Scott Pruitt amid ethics scandals. William Wehrum, the nation’s top clean-air regulator, is a lawyer whose former clients included coal-burning power plants and oil giants.If confirmed as the next Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Bernhardt would succeed Ryan Zinke, who left in January under a cloud of ethics investigations.For the California farmers on whose behalf he once lobbied, Mr. Bernhardt’s actions to weaken environmental protections would free up river water, an asset of incalculable value as climate change propels California toward a hotter, drier future. Rerouting river water would also devastate the regional ecosystem of the San Francisco Bay Delta, scientists say, imperiling dozens of other fish up the food chain and affecting water birds, orcas and commercial fisheries and encouraging toxic algal blooms.Mr. Bernhardt received verbal approval from an Interior Department ethics official before initiating the rollback of protections for the smelt, delivering on a campaign pledge by President Trump to release water for the farmers. If the plan goes through, the water could be diverted from the rivers to the fields as soon as December.It is not the first time Mr. Bernhardt’s official duties have converged with his earlier work as a lobbyist. Before joining the Interior Department in 2017 as the second in command, he lobbied for oil and gas companies. The Interior Department controls drilling rights for millions of acres of federal land and coastal waters. Mr. Bernhardt also worked as a lobbyist and lawyer for the Westlands Water District, which represents California farmers who have been fighting for decades against the delta smelt for access to the river water that both need to survive.The smelt is at the heart of one of the fiercest battles in California’s decades of water wars. It is a fight that pits agribusiness, which needs irrigation to thrive, against environmentalists and commercial fishermen defending the ecosystem of the vast San Francisco Bay Delta, the rivers that drain it, and the stretch of the Pacific Ocean into which it empties.The environmentalists have long had the Endangered Species Act on their side, thwarting agricultural interests like the Westlands Water District. Mr. Bernhardt’s efforts to weaken the Endangered Species Act represent a historic power shift. Mr. Bernhardt has opened a broad, national effort to overhaul the Endangered Species Act. At the same time, he has taken a hands-on approach in the narrow policy change of removing protections for the delta smelt, which could deliver an economic win in the Westlands Water District. In an interview, Mr. Bernhardt acknowledged that, in late 2017, four months after joining the Interior Department, he directed David Murillo, a senior water-resources official for the mid-Pacific region, to begin the process of weakening protections for the smelt and another fish, the winter-run Chinook salmon, to free up river water for agriculture. A month later, Mr. Murillo’s office started the process of weakening the protections. Last week it followed up with a more detailed, 871-page proposal on diverting the water.Because Mr. Bernhardt’s actions would disproportionately benefit one of his former clients, independent ethics specialists said that, under the terms of the Trump administration’s ethics pledge, which Mr. Bernhardt signed, he should not have been given clearance to act. Its “revolving door” provision requires former lobbyists to recuse themselves for two years from any particular matter or specific issue on which they lobbied in the two years before joining the administration.“This is a clear case of violating the ethics code, and a clear conflict of interest,” said James Thurber, who teaches a course on ethics and lobbying at American University in Washington. “He was appointed and, in less than a one-year period, then he started advocating for what he had lobbied for. It’s not a gray area.” The Interior Department ethics lawyers stood by the decision to approve the action. And, in an interview, Mr. Bernhardt said he was extremely sensitive to ethics issues. “This is an area where I try to be very, very careful,” he said. “My view is, I signed an ethics agreement, I need to be in compliance with that ethics agreement. And I need to get good advice so I don’t make mistakes. Everything I do, I go to our ethics officers first.”For decades Westlands Water District, a state-chartered organization covering an area the size of Rhode Island, has fought for river water on behalf of the 700 or so almond, cotton and tomato farmers of California’s arid San Joaquin Valley.The farmers’ chief goal in the district has been to weaken the Endangered Species Act protections of the smelt, a silvery, cucumber-scented fish found only in the San Francisco Bay Delta, and its fellow river resident, the winter-run Chinook salmon. The winter-run Chinook salmon is listed as “endangered” and the smelt is “threatened” (one step below endangered), which entitles their watery habitat to federal protection and restricts use of water for irrigation. Biologists say the protections have many benefits. “This is not just about two boutique species of fish,” said Jonathan Rosenfield, lead scientist at The Bay Institute, a nonprofit research organization in San Francisco, citing the increased risk of algal blooms in the San Francisco Bay Delta. “Those algal blooms create the kind of toxin where, when dogs jump into the water to go swimming, they don’t jump out,” he said.Scientists also say the plan violates the Endangered Species Act because it requires that changes like these be based on the best available science, and the smelt remains as threatened as ever.“I’m steeped in the science,” Mr. Rosenfield said. “If anything, the research indicates that we’re not doing enough to protect these fish from going extinct.”Local farmers see something else: crops suffering from years of drought. “These Westlands farmers are growing the nation’s food, the world’s food, and as a result of these protections on fish, their water supplies are drastically reduced,” said Timothy Quinn, who until last year led the Association of California Water Agencies and is now a research scholar at Stanford University’s Water in the West program. For the farmers themselves, the water represents an economic lifeline.“It’s a foundational need for us,” said William Boudreau, a member of Westlands’ Board of Directors and executive vice president of Harris Farms, which grow lettuce, tomatoes, almonds and other crops. “If we get this water, it means our communities can thrive, we can employ people. Without water, it’s very difficult to farm. There are dramatic job losses. It reduces our food supply. There’s human suffering.”A spokesman for the Westlands, Johnny Amaral, declined a request to interview district officials.If the protections on the fish were lifted, Westlands would not be the only beneficiary — water would also flow to surrounding water districts. But because of a quirk in California law, Westlands would likely be the main beneficiary, according to Jeffrey Mount, a water management expert with the Public Policy Institute of California. That’s because river water in California is distributed according to a longstanding first-come-first-served system, and Westlands is low on the list. “Westlands is the most penalized under the current system,” Mr. Mount said. “But if the protections on the fish are relaxed, they will be one of the biggest winners.”Mr. Bernhardt disagrees. “It’s a massive project,” he said of the broad Central Valley system for distributing water to farmers. “It’s 400 miles of project. The coordinated operations involve 25 million people. These are big, big policy things.”Mr. Bernhardt said his actions reflected Mr. Trump’s broader agenda of helping rural America, including a campaign pledge to deliver water to all the Central Valley farmers. “The president does have a policy that he wants us to deliver water more efficiently, and it’s good policy.” he said. “I don’t believe for a minute that I’m doing things to benefit Westlands. I’m doing things to benefit America.”In 2011 the farmers of Westlands hired Mr. Bernhardt, who worked for the firm Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck. During his five years as lobbyist and lawyer for the district, it paid his firm at least $1.3 million in lobbying fees, his disclosure reports show.For Westlands, Mr. Bernhardt said he lobbied Congress on a broad water infrastructure bill, but his lobbying was focused on one specific section of the bill: a provision to weaken smelt and salmon protections, and divert water to the Central Valley farmers. That bill passed, but it resulted in the release of only small amounts of river water for irrigation in Westlands, and will do so only through 2021.Weakening the underlying Endangered Species Act protections would free up much more water. In 2014, Mr. Bernhardt, on behalf of Westlands, joined a legal petition asking the Supreme Court to take up a case seeking to weaken or lift Endangered Species Act protections on the delta smelt. The same year, he made oral arguments in a case that pitted Westlands and a half-dozen other California water districts against the federal government and sought to weaken Endangered Species protections on the winter-run Chinook salmon.In both cases, Mr. Bernhardt argued that the protections for the fish relied on flawed scientific and legal findings. In both cases, Mr. Bernhardt and his clients lost. In 2016 Donald Trump raised the issue of the delta smelt at a campaign rally in Fresno, assailing policies designed “to protect a certain kind of three-inch fish.”“We’re going to start opening up the water,” he said.The next year, the Trump administration began taking steps to make that happen. Mr. Bernhardt led the effort after being confirmed as the deputy Secretary of the Interior Department in July 2017. He had de-registered as a lobbyist for Westlands in November 2016.After his confirmation, Mr. Bernhardt signed the Trump administration’s ethics pledge. Four months later, in November 2017, Mr. Bernhardt’s public records show that he held four phone calls with Mr. Murillo, the Interior Department official with the legal authority to initiate the process to revise protections for the delta smelt and winter-run chinook salmon. Other people were on the calls, as well.The outcome of those conversations was that Mr. Bernhardt told Mr. Murillo to begin the process of changing the protections for the fish and to finish as quickly as possible, according to three people familiar with the matter. In December, Mr. Murillo began that process.Mr. Murillo, who retired from the Interior Department in November, declined to comment on the record.Before phoning Mr. Murillo, Mr. Bernhardt said, he had received verbal clearance from an Interior Department ethics lawyer. Technically, the lawyer told Mr. Bernhardt, he had lobbied on a broad water bill — one with many provisions, not just smelt rollbacks. So even though he had specifically lobbied only on the provision targeting the smelt and salmon, he was within the ethics rules.“They say to me, ‘It’s gigantic,’” Mr. Bernhardt said of the bill. A senior ethics official at the Interior Department, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he did not believe Mr. Bernhardt had violated the Trump ethics pledge, or any other ethics rules or laws, because the lobbying was on the broader matter, the overall water bill. However, the official said that other ethics experts could reasonably arrive at a different conclusion.Several government ethics specialists disagreed with the Interior Department’s interpretation. “That argument is a real reach,” said Virginia Canter, the chief ethics counsel for Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a nonprofit, nonpartisan watchdog group.She said Mr. Bernhardt should have received the approval in writing. “If he didn’t receive it in writing, it’s still an open question of whether he violated the pledge, and worthy of an investigation,” by the agency’s Inspector General, she said.Under federal ethics rules, Mr. Bernhardt could have requested a formal written waiver from the White House, or short of that, a written memo from the agency ethics official laying out guidance on how to proceed. A spokeswoman for Mr. Bernhardt, Faith Vander Voort, said in an email that since the Interior Department ethics officials had determined that he had lobbied on the “broad” matter of the water infrastructure bill, rather than a narrow or specific matter, “Mr. Bernhardt was not required to receive written guidance or authorization from the Departmental Ethics Office prior to participating in the decision.”As a former lobbyist, Mr. Bernhardt said he takes care to stay within the regulations, particularly in matters involving his former clients. “My job is to follow the rules to the T, and if Congress wants to change rules, Congress can,” he said. For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.A picture caption with an earlier version of this story identified incorrectly a fish that was being measured as part of a scientific survey. It was a threadfin shad, not a delta smelt. The photo and caption have been replaced.Coral Davenport covers energy and environmental policy, with a focus on climate change, from the Washington bureau. She joined The Times in 2013 and previously worked at Congressional Quarterly, Politico and National Journal.  @CoralMDavenport • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Niraj Chokshi and Matthew HaagIn a tense exchange at a hearing on Wednesday, one of the newest members of Congress, Representative Ilhan Omar, confronted Elliott Abrams, a Trump administration official, over his role in foreign policy scandals decades ago, including the Iran-contra affair and the United States’ support of brutal leaders abroad.Mr. Abrams, who served in top State Department positions under President Ronald Reagan and has remained part of the Washington foreign policy establishment, was appointed last month to be the Trump administration’s envoy to Venezuela, where a dispute is raging over control of the nation’s presidency. Last month, the United States weighed in, recognizing the opposition leader Juan Guaidó as part of a campaign by the Trump administration to oust President Nicolás Maduro.Mr. Abrams was one of three people asked to appear before the House Foreign Affairs Committee for a hearing on Venezuela, an area of the world he knows well. Under Reagan, Mr. Abrams was an assistant secretary of state who fiercely advocated interventionism, including the covert arming of Nicaraguan rebels in the mid-1980s, a scandal that became known as the Iran-contra affair.In the hearing on Wednesday, Ms. Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, confronted Mr. Abrams over his role in that scandal and his support for brutal Central American governments. In one tense exchange, Ms. Omar recalled testimony from Mr. Abrams about a massacre in which units of El Salvador’s military, trained and equipped by the United States, killed nearly 1,000 civilians in 1981 in the village of El Mozote.In 1982, Mr. Abrams dismissed news reports about the massacre as not credible and as leftist propaganda, and he later described the Reagan administration’s record in El Salvador as a “fabulous achievement.”“Do you think that massacre was a ‘fabulous achievement’ that happened under our watch?” Ms. Omar asked him at Wednesday’s hearing.“That is a ridiculous question, and I will not respond to it,” Mr. Abrams said. “I am not going to respond to that kind of personal attack, which is not a question.”The Iran-contra affair was a political scandal that dogged the second half of the Reagan presidency.It centered on two controversial, and linked, actions undertaken by his administration. One was the sale of weapons to Iran, despite an embargo, purportedly to secure the release of American hostages held in Lebanon. The second was the use of proceeds from those weapon sales to support the right-wing contra rebels in Nicaragua in their fight against the leftist Sandinista government.When first revealed publicly by a Lebanese magazine in 1986, the weapons sales were criticized for violating both the embargo and the United States’ refusal to negotiate with terrorists. The use of money from the sales to support the rebels in Nicaragua was also controversial because it violated a congressional ban restricting military aid to the group.Reagan emerged largely unscathed by the scandal, leaving office with the highest approval rating of any president in decades. But more than a dozen others were charged with criminal offenses, primarily for withholding information from Congress. They included some who remain active in American politics to this day, such as Oliver L. North, now the president of the National Rifle Association, and Mr. Abrams.While serving in the State Department under Reagan, Mr. Abrams was a fierce advocate of arming the rebels and, in 1991, he pleaded guilty to two misdemeanor counts of withholding information from Congress about those secret efforts. He was pardoned the next year by President George Bush.Ms. Omar devoted most of her time during the hearing to detailing Mr. Abrams’s role in events abroad during the Reagan administration, often cutting off his responses by telling him she had not asked a question.She did, however, ask one question: whether Mr. Abrams would “support an armed faction within Venezuela that engages in war crimes, crimes against humanity or genocide if you believed they were serving U.S. interests, as you did in Guatemala, El Salvador and Nicaragua?”The United States’ involvement in Guatemala is not as well known as the Iran-contra affair, but the country was crucial to the Reagan administration’s strategy in Central America, with Washington often looking the other way when presented with evidence of atrocities. In 1982, the Reagan administration started to cultivate Gen. Efraín Ríos Montt, who seized power that year in Guatemala, as an ally in the region in its fight against the Sandinista government and Salvadoran guerrillas.Reagan praised General Ríos Montt even though American officials privately knew the Guatemalan military had killed its own people. The general was convicted of genocide in 2013.El Salvador officially apologized for the El Mozote massacre in 2011.Despite his role in the Iran-contra affair, Mr. Abrams has remained active in politics.In the 1990s, he led a think tank dedicated to applying Judeo-Christian values to public policy. He later joined the administration of President George W. Bush as an adviser on Middle East affairs.In 2017, President Trump blocked Mr. Abrams from serving as a deputy to Rex W. Tillerson, then the secretary of state. But last month, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was able to appoint Mr. Abrams as a special envoy to lead the department’s efforts on Venezuela.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIn the 21st century, environmental policy is economic policy. By Jedediah Britton-PurdyMr. Britton-Purdy is the author, most recently, of “After Nature: A Politics for the Anthropocene.”Everyone is lining up to endorse the Green New Deal — or to mock it. Kamala Harris, Cory Booker, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Kirsten Gillibrand have all endorsed the resolution sponsored by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward Markey of Massachusetts.Conservative critics predictably call it “a shocking document” and “a call for enviro-socialism in America,” but liberal condescension has cut deeper. The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, essentially dismissed it as branding, saying, “The green dream, or whatever they call it, nobody knows what it is, but they’re for it, right?” Others have criticized it for leaving out any mention of a carbon tax, a cornerstone of mainstream climate-policy proposals, while embracing a left-populist agenda that includes universal health care, stronger labor rights and a jobs guarantee. What do these goals have to do with stabilizing atmospheric carbon levels before climate change makes large parts of the world uninhabitable? What has taken liberal critics aback is that the Green New Deal strays so far from the traditional environmental emphasis on controlling pollution, which the carbon tax aims to do, and tries to solve the problems of economic inequality, poverty and even corporate concentration (there’s an antimonopoly clause).But this everything-and-the-carbon-sink strategy is actually a feature of the approach, not a bug, and not only for reasons of ideological branding. In the 21st century, environmental policy is economic policy. Keeping the two separate isn’t a feat of intellectual discipline. It’s an anachronism.Our carbon emissions are not mainly about the price of gasoline or electricity. They’re about infrastructure. For every human being, there are over 1,000 tons of built environment: roads, office buildings, power plants, cars and trains and long-haul trucks. It is a technological exoskeleton for the species. Everything most of us do, we do through it: calling our parents, getting to work, moving for a job, taking the family on vacation, finding food for the evening or staying warm in a polar vortex. Just being human in this artificial world implies a definite carbon footprint — and for that matter, a trail of footprints in water use, soil compaction, habitat degradation and pesticide use. You cannot change the climate impact of Americans without changing the built American landscape.So the proposals to retrofit buildings, retool transportation and build a clean-energy system are simply ways of tackling the problem where it starts. They are public-works projects because large capital projects — especially ones that, like highways, involve widespread public benefit — have always required public money. They are jobs programs, unless robots do the work, so the jobs might as well be good. The deeper point is that any economic policy is a jobs policy. The oil and gas sector provides at least 1.4 million American jobs, more if you believe industry estimates, and depends on public subsidies and infrastructure. You might say that producing the disaster of global climate change has taken a lot of economic policy and produced a lot of jobs programs. Reversing direction will take the same. Since environmental policy can happen only through economic policy, there is no avoiding decisions about what sorts of work there will be, and in which industries. It’s unsettling, but maybe a little less so when you consider that we’ve been doing it all along, usually without owning up to it.Take the Green New Deal’s proposal to work with family farmers and ranchers to reduce the carbon footprint of agriculture. It might sound like a sop to rural representatives, the locavore caucus of the Democratic Socialists of America, or both. (And that wouldn’t make it wrong.) But food is our everyday metabolism with the natural world, which is why agriculture emits 9 percent of United States carbon, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. (Other estimates are considerably higher.)Forty percent of our land is farmed or ranched, which is to say, the soil is basically conscripted as a food factory. The food system is already pervasively shaped by the Farm Bill, which spends nearly $15 billion per year on subsidies and $10 billion on conservation measures, deeply shaping what farmers grow and where, and tending to benefit large, industrially oriented operations. Food production can be much less carbon-intensive with changed practices in cropping, fertilizing, irrigation and waste management, many of them well suited to small farming. Moving in that direction, though, would require rattling the cage of big American agriculture.As with energy, getting lawmaking involved wouldn’t be new. It has taken years of agricultural policy to get us into this mess. Getting out of it is a question not of whether lawmaking also produces economic policy and jobs, but of what kind.The Green New Deal isn’t the only approach, of course, but its broad ambitions mark out the ground where future climate fights will happen. Because reshaping our environmental impact means reworking our economy, there will inevitably be competing visions about who deserves to benefit and what kind of economy we should build. Centrist proposals will concentrate on promoting investment in new technologies, with profits going, pharma-style, to private researchers and manufacturers.If Trumpist nationalism outgrows its climate denialism but survives to fight again, it will double down on supporting national energy industries and denying the ethical responsibilities of global interdependence by building border walls against climate refugees. To the left of the Green New Deal, there will be louder calls to nationalize fossil fuels in order to leave them in the ground. (A carbon tax would be compatible with any of these visions, depending on who paid it and how the revenues were spent.)Curiously, the idea that environmental policy could ever be separated from the larger economic order, or from fights over fairness, is recent, a product of an unusually technocratic period in American politics. Arguing for the Clean Air Act on Earth Day 1970, Senator Edmund Muskie, Democrat of Maine and the law’s lead drafter, insisted that “man’s environment” included “the shape of the communities in which he lives” and that “the only kind of society that has a chance” was “a society that will not tolerate slums for some and decent houses for others, rats for some and playgrounds for others, clean air for some and filth for others.”For Senator Muskie, environmentalism meant that no neighborhood or job should be toxic. In the three years that followed, the country adopted the most ambitious and effective environmental legislation in its history, including Mr. Muskie’s Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Endangered Species Act. Mr. Muskie’s approach remains a model of visionary environmental lawmaking. Like much new radicalism, the Green New Deal is good sense rediscovered.Jedediah Britton-Purdy (@JedediahSPurdy) is a professor of law at Columbia and is the author, most recently, of “After Nature: A Politics for the Anthropocene.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisementyour taxes 2019Don’t count on big changes. But the heated debates in Congress and on the 2020 campaign trail give clues about legislation to come.CreditCreditDelcan & Company + Saad MoosajeeSupported byBy Jim TankersleyThere was a brief period this month when it seemed that the midterm elections, which delivered control of the House to Democrats, might immediately shake up Americans’ income tax bills.That sense of urgency lasted half a day.On Feb. 7, newspapers reported that President Trump had said he was “open” to easing a tax law change that has been painful to many people in New York, New Jersey and California. That is the $10,000-per-household limit on federal deductions for state and local taxes, known as SALT, which was included in the 2017 tax overhaul.“There are some people from New York who have been speaking to me about doing something about that, about changing things,” Mr. Trump had told reporters from several regional newspapers. “I’d be open to talking about it.”Early that afternoon, however, Republicans closed the door on any such talks. “The Senate Finance Committee won’t be revisiting the SALT deduction reforms made in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” a spokesman for the committee chairman, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, said in a news release.Expect a lot more where that came from. Newly empowered Democrats have lots of ideas for changing tax policy, including repealing some or all of the tax law, which mostly took effect last year. But in a divided Washington, with Republicans controlling the Senate and the White House, it’s unlikely that any of those changes will make their way into law.For taxpayers trying to keep score at home, that portends a potentially dizzying year, one with much talk from Democrats and Republicans alike — and little action. But that doesn’t mean you can tune out the chatter entirely.Today’s tax debates could be tomorrow’s policy changes, depending on how the next set of elections goes.“While legislation is unlikely to advance, the robust Democratic primary field seems set on making tax policy a key tenet of their platforms,” said Nicole Kaeding, director of federal projects at the Tax Foundation in Washington. “The debate is quickly moving away from the halls of the Capitol to the campaign trail.”The new tax law has been contentious — and fragile — since Republicans raced it through Congress in less than two months. No Democrat in either chamber voted for the law, making it extremely vulnerable to extensive change, if not outright repeal, should Democrats gain complete control of the legislative and executive branches in Washington.Adding to that vulnerability is the law’s relatively low popularity. After a brief high shortly after enactment, the tax-cut measure has failed to attract the support of a majority of Americans in polling.Many Democrats won House seats after promising to repeal all or part of the tax law — particularly the SALT limit, which appears to have hurt Republican candidates in high-income, high-tax districts in areas like Orange County, Calif., and the New Jersey suburbs of New York City. But since the election, those promises have been overtaken by a flurry of legislative and campaign proposals to raise taxes on the rich.Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York has proposed raising the top marginal income tax rate to 70 percent for people with incomes above $10 million. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, a presidential candidate, recently unveiled a plan to levy a 2 percent annual wealth tax on Americans with a net worth exceeding $50 million. And Senator Kamala Harris of California, who is also running for president, says her top policy priority is a tax cut for low- and middle-income Americans that could cost nearly $3 trillion over a decade.You don’t need to spend a minute wondering if those plans might pass Congress this year: They won’t.Only a few tax changes are even remotely likely to affect you this year. Congress could decide to extend some expired tax credits retroactively, such as deductions for private mortgage insurance and higher-education expenses, Ms. Kaeding said. Such a move would simply continue tax credits that some taxpayers had come to depend on, which otherwise would vanish for the 2018 tax year and beyond.There’s a small chance that Democrats and Republicans might work together to slightly tweak tax advantages for retirement savings, but analysts see that as a long shot, at best.The Trump administration is also considering pleas from some conservative groups to allow taxpayers to reduce their capital gains taxes by adjusting the initial value of an asset, such as a home or a share of stock, for inflation when it sells. The groups say that change would accelerate economic growth by freeing more money for investment. Previous administrations have concluded that such a move is outside the power of the executive branch, but many groups pushing for lower taxes have been meeting regularly with administration officials, urging them to make the change.“This is a lot like a duck swimming in a pond,” said Ryan Ellis, a tax lobbyist in Washington and a former tax policy director at Americans for Tax Reform, who is helping to lead the push for the capital gains change. “All the real action is happening underneath the surface.”If the administration took that step, however, it would inflame Democrats’ critique of Republican tax policies, because adjusting capital gains for inflation would mainly benefit the wealthiest Americans. Economists from the Penn Wharton Budget Model project that the move would amount to an $88 billion tax cut over a decade for the top 1 percent of income earners in the United States — and a $14 billion cut for the other 99 percent.Soak-the-rich talk seems likely to escalate as Democratic candidates jockey for advantage in the 2020 presidential primaries. Increased taxation of high-income, high-wealth people can be a means of funding new social spending programs like universal prekindergarten education. It can also be a direct way of reducing inequality and wealth in the United States.At the very least, in the months ahead, you’re likely to hear a lot about millionaires and billionaires paying their “fair share.” And you will probably hear about reducing taxes on middle-class workers — who, thanks in part to the Trump tax cuts, pay a lower marginal tax rate than they have in 30 years, according to the Congressional Budget Office.The campaign language may suggest what you can expect if Democrats win in 2020: If you’re a millionaire or a billionaire, expect efforts to tax you more. If your income is lower, you might be in line for a break from the feds.“Taxes on the rich are going to go up, and they will likely go up a lot,” said Michael Linden, a fellow at the liberal Roosevelt Institute who has been a fervent opponent of Mr. Trump’s tax policies. “The fundamental, underlying dynamic is that with near-record inequality, an aging population and an overall economic system that favors the haves over the have-nots, it’s just untenable to have an overall tax code with as little progressivity as ours has, and generates as little revenue as ours does.”On the other hand, if Mr. Trump wins and Republicans sweep Congress again, you can expect a different vision to prevail — one that embraces the new tax law. Its provisions for individuals are generally set to expire at the end of 2025, but with a strong Republican mandate, those cuts are likely to be made permanent. For six-figure earners in high-tax states, well, things could get complicated, whoever wins the next election.Democrats will almost certainly rail against the SALT cap on the campaign trail. Repealing the cap would provide relief for people who are finding that their taxes have gone up because of it. But it would also amount to a tax cut for the rich and, as Mr. Grassley’s spokesman noted this month, that seems at odds with the economic goals of many Democrats.In all of the passion of the political campaigns, it’s worth listening carefully for clues on how that tension might be resolved.An earlier version of this article misstated the threshold above which Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts would impose a wealth tax. It is $50 million, not $50 billion.Jim Tankersley covers economic and tax policy. Over more than a decade covering politics and economics in Washington, he has written extensively about the stagnation of the American middle class and the decline of economic opportunity.  @jimtankersley AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — In his State of the Union address, President Trump announced a bold plan to end the scourge of H.I.V. by 2030, a promise that seemed to fly in the face of two years of policies and proposals that go in the opposite direction and could undermine progress against the virus that causes AIDS.In November, the Trump administration proposed a rule change that would make it more difficult for Medicare beneficiaries to get the medicines that treat H.I.V. infection and prevent the virus from spreading.Mr. Trump has repeatedly urged Congress to repeal the expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, even though Medicaid is the largest source of coverage for people with H.I.V. And he has promoted the sale of short-term health plans that skirt the Affordable Care Act, even though such plans usually exclude people with H.I.V.To end the spread of the virus, federal health officials say they must reduce the stigma attached to gay men and transgender people who are at high risk so they will seek testing and treatment. But for two years the administration has tried to roll back legal protections for people in those groups.Those opposing moves by the administration have AIDS activists baffled.“The president’s announcement comes as a surprise, albeit a welcome surprise,” said Jennifer C. Pizer, the law and policy director at Lambda Legal, a gay rights group. “It represents an about-face on H.I.V. policy.”The administration describes the plan to end the spread of H.I.V. as one of the most important public health initiatives in history. But the record shows a rather large gap between the administration’s words and deeds.Since Medicare’s outpatient drug benefit began in 2006, the government has required prescription drug plans to cover “all or substantially all drugs” in six therapeutic classes, including antiretroviral medicines to treat H.I.V.In November, the Trump administration proposed a new policy to cut costs for Medicare by reducing the number of drugs that must be made available to people with H.I.V.The proposal would allow certain exceptions to the requirement for Medicare drug plans to cover all drugs in the six “protected classes.”Insurers could require Medicare beneficiaries to get advance approval, or “prior authorization,” for H.I.V. drugs and could require them to try less expensive medications before using more costly ones, a practice known as step therapy.People with H.I.V. and doctors have condemned the proposals.Bruce Packett, the executive director of the American Academy of H.I.V. Medicine, representing doctors who care for H.I.V. patients, said the administration’s proposals “could be catastrophic” for Medicare patients with the virus, as well as for the president’s campaign to end the epidemic.“At least 25 percent of all people living with H.I.V. who are in care in the United States rely on Medicare as their insurer,” Mr. Packett said.Those patients are 65 or older or have disabilities and often have other chronic diseases or conditions, so doctors need access to the “full arsenal” of medicines to treat H.I.V., Mr. Packett said.Many of the Medicare patients with H.I.V. are taking medicines for their other conditions, so doctors have to worry about drug interactions, Mr. Packett said. In addition, he said, some have drug-resistant strains of H.I.V., and different patients often respond to the same drug in different ways.“It’s important that providers have access to all the available options” among drugs to treat H.I.V., he said.Requirements for prior authorization and similar restrictions can delay the start of treatment. Studies show that a rapid start to therapy, within a week or even a day of diagnosis, produces better results for patients and reduces the likelihood that they will infect others while waiting for treatment.“You can’t end H.I.V. with treatment and prevention if you put prior authorization and step therapy on H.I.V. drugs,” said Carl E. Schmid II, the deputy executive director of the AIDS Institute, a public policy and advocacy organization.Trump administration officials say the proposal would allow Medicare to use tools widely employed by private insurers. But patients say a number of commercial insurers have been forced to change their drug benefits after they were found to discriminate against people with H.I.V.Medicaid covers more than 40 percent of people with H.I.V. who are receiving care. Some, including people with disabilities, are also covered by Medicare. The expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act has contributed to a nationwide increase in coverage for people with the virus.Congress rejected numerous proposals to repeal the Affordable Care Act in 2017. But in his budget last year, Mr. Trump again asked Congress to repeal the expansion, and he proposed $1.4 trillion in Medicaid savings over 10 years.He would have given states a choice between lump-sum federal payments, known as block grants, and limits on the growth of per-capita Medicaid costs. Both options would squeeze funds available to combat the spread of H.I.V.Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, said the Trump administration’s campaign against H.I.V. would focus on 48 counties where about half of new infections occur. Eighteen of the counties are in states that have not expanded Medicaid: Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Texas.The administration has not said how it will help cover the cost of medications to prevent H.I.V. among uninsured people in those states. A daily drug regimen known as PrEP, for pre-exposure prophylaxis, helps block infection among people who do not have H.I.V. but are at high risk of getting it. The pills sell in pharmacies for an average cash price of more than $1,600 for a month’s supply, according to the drug price website GoodRx.Mr. Trump has encouraged the sale of “short-term, limited-duration” insurance plans that are exempt from the coverage requirements of the Affordable Care Act and are much cheaper than plans that comply with the law.White House officials called these plans “an attractive option for the nearly 30 million uninsured, or people with gaps in employment and those most hurt by rising premiums and a lack of affordable coverage.” The growth of the market for these plans “benefits society by allowing greater choice and lower-cost coverage,” a report issued last week by the White House said.But the short-term plans often refuse to cover people with H.I.V. Some do not cover prescription drugs, which are essential in any effort to end the spread of H.I.V.A typical question on an application for short-term insurance asks consumers if they have tested positive for H.I.V. or received treatment advice or medication for H.I.V. infection in the past five years.In a recent study analyzing 38 short-term plans, the Kaiser Family Foundation found that people who said they had H.I.V. were rejected in every case.Short-term insurance would generally not meet the needs of someone with H.I.V. because of the limits on benefits, particularly for prescription drugs, and high out-of-pocket costs, the Kaiser study said.Describing their plan to end the epidemic, Trump administration officials said it was necessary to remove the stigma that surrounds H.I.V. so people would not be afraid to seek testing and treatment. Prejudice against gay people contributes to the stigma, they said.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said the stigma often leads to discrimination, and as an example it pointed to the case of “a health care professional refusing to provide care or services to a person living with H.I.V.”The agency’s website says that transgender people may be at higher risk for getting or transmitting H.I.V. One reason, it said, is that “many transgender people face stigma, discrimination, social rejection and exclusion that prevent them from fully participating in society, including accessing health care, education, employment and housing.”But the Trump administration has stepped back from efforts to fight such discrimination.Administration officials said last year that they were planning to roll back a rule issued by President Barack Obama that prevents doctors, hospitals and health insurance companies from discriminating against transgender people.And the Justice Department has told courts that a civil rights law that bans job discrimination based on sex does not protect people who suffer discrimination because of their lesbian, gay or transgender status.“If this administration wants to combat the spread of H.I.V., they need to immediately end their efforts to cut Medicaid funding, undermine the Affordable Care Act and license discrimination against the people who are most at risk,” said David Stacy, the chief lobbyist at the Human Rights Campaign, which presses for the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer people.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEncouraging and exploiting division has worked for Trump, as far as his own electoral prospects are concerned. Can he keep it up?By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.However often President Trump strays from his favored political strategy, he faithfully returns to it like a dog to a bone: first, polarize the American electorate along racial, cultural and economic lines, then exploit the schisms that have supplanted the class divisions that were once central to both American and European partisan politics.On one side of the divide are those whom the political scientists Pippa Norris and Ronald Inglehart describe in a 2016 paper as comfortable with “an inexorable cultural escalator moving postindustrial societies steadily in a more progressive direction.” This new direction amounts to what the authors callan intergenerational shift toward post-materialist values, such as cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism, generating rising support for left-libertarian parties such as the Greens and other progressive movements advocating environmental protection, human rights, and gender equality.On the other side, Norris and Inglehart write, is a counterrevolution, aretro backlash, especially among the older generation, white men, and less educated sectors, who sense decline and actively reject the rising tide of progressive values, resent the displacement of familiar traditional norms, and provide a pool of supporters potentially vulnerable to populist appeals.Economic distress, they argue, reinforces cultural alienation to produce fertile terrain for Trump. “Fears of economic insecurity, including the individual experience of the loss of secure, well-paid blue-collar jobs, and the collective experience of living in declining communities of the left-behinds” combine to make votersmore susceptible to the anti-establishment appeals of authoritarian-populist actors, offering simple slogans blaming “Them” for stripping prosperity, job opportunities, and public services from “Us.” The collision of these forces has produced the emergence of an American authoritarianism. In their book, “Cultural Backlash: Trump, Brexit and Authoritarian Populism,” which comes out later this week, Norris and Inglehart write that Trump has assumed leadership of this authoritarian movement,defined as a cluster of values prioritizing collective security for the group at the expense of liberal autonomy for the individual. Authoritarian values prioritize three core components: 1) the importance of security against risks of instability and disorder (foreigners stealing our jobs, immigrants attacking our women, terrorists threatening our safety); 2) the value of group conformity to preserve conventional traditions and to guard our way of life (defending “Us” against threats to “European values”); and 3) the need for loyal obedience toward strong leaders who protect the group and its customs (“I alone can fix it," “Believe me,” “Are you on my team?").The United States and many European countries, at various points in the last decade, have reached a critical juncture, Norris and Inglehart write: “The interwar generation, non-college graduates, the working class, white Europeans, the more religious, men and residents of rural communities” have come to feel “estranged from the silent revolution in social and moral values, left behind by cultural tides that they deeply reject.” These men and women, “until recently the politically and socially dominant group in Western cultures,” reacheda tipping point at which their hegemonic status, power and privilege is fading. Their values make them potential supporters for parties and leaders promising to restore national sovereignty (Make America Great Again), restrict immigration and multicultural diversity (Build a Wall) and defend traditional religious and conventional moral values.The debate over whether the rise of right-wing populism is driven by cultural anxiety, racism, ethnocentricity or economic deprivation may “be somewhat artificial,” Norris and Inglehart contend becauseinteractive processes may possibly link these factors, if structural changes in the work force and social trends in globalized markets heighten economic insecurity, and if this, in turn, stimulates a negative backlash among traditionalists toward cultural shifts. It may not be an either/or question, but one of relative emphasis with interactive effects.In this country, the nominally class-based politics of the New Deal fractured when working class non-college whites felt abandoned by a Democratic Party that shed its pre-civil rights, segregationist southern wing and that by the 1970s had adopted a culturally and racially liberal agenda. Over the past five decades, these white voters have formed the core of the populist right. Conversely, minorities, many of whom face the same economic hardships as working class whites, if not worse, are firmly aligned with the party of social and cultural liberalism and racial equality, the Democratic Party.“The new cultural cleavage dividing Populists and Cosmopolitan Liberals,” Norris and Inglehart write, is “orthogonal to the classic economic class cleavage” — in other words, the new division cuts across and splits the old economic class solidarity.Data from a preliminary American National Election Studies survey — provided to me by Matthew DeBell, a scholar at Stanford’s Institute for Research in the Social Sciences — revealed the strength of this new cleavage. The survey asked 2,500 men and women to rank their feelings toward Trump on a “feeling thermometer” scale of zero, “very cold or unfavorable,” to 100, “very warm or favorable.”The results illustrate that the population is even more divided between those who love and those who hate Trump than we might think. Sixty-one percent had either extremely hostile or very positive feelings toward the president.Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory University, analyzed the responses to the survey. He wrote me that nearly two out of five of those surveyed, 38 percent, put Trump in the coldest range, 5 degrees or lower. 23 percent, put him in the warmest range, 95 degrees or higher. If the definition of extreme is expanded to encompass those who rank Trump from 0 to 10 and from 90 to 100, the total grows to 72 percent — 44 percent at 10 degrees or lower, 28 percent 90 degrees or higher.Abramowitz noted that “Trump is the most polarizing president in the history of ANES polling and Gallup polling.”Not only is Trump the most polarizing president, he has monopolized public attention and managed to make himself the object of both loathing and adoration.“The 2020 elections will certainly be all about Trump, assuming he is on the ballot and to a considerable extent even if he is not,” Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, wrote me in an email. “The 2018 election was all about Trump even though he was not on the ballot.”Stanley Feldman, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, elaborated on Trump’s self-generated centrality in an email:While Democrats and Republicans were already quite polarized before Trump ran for the presidency, I don’t think there is any question that he has contributed to further polarization. It is increasingly difficult to find people who don’t feel strongly about him.Trump, Feldman noted,taps into some fundamental issues in contemporary American politics — race/ethnicity, social issues, nationalism — and his rhetoric — clearly designed to appeal to his base — turns off many of those who are not with him on those issues. When you do little or nothing to broaden your support beyond your core voters you will generate extreme affective reactions.Feldman posed the question:Will this make the 2020 election largely about Trump? To a great extent yes, though the answer to that will depend in part on who the Democratic candidate is. As we saw in 2016, negative reactions to Hillary Clinton contributed to the outcome of that election.Feldman’s point about Clinton leads to the next question. As the Democratic selection of a nominee begins in earnest, one issue threatens the cohesion of the center-left coalition: whether the party should support expansive liberal initiatives like Medicare for All, a sharp hike in tax rates on the rich and a Green New Deal or whether it should stake out the center.Columnists who lean toward the center themselves have been particularly sharp in their criticism of the leftward movement of the party.“Democrats Are Boosting Trump’s Re-election Prospects,” read the headline of a National Journal article last week by Josh Kraushaar: Their top 2020 presidential hopefuls are embracing socialist-minded economic policy, from a Green New Deal to single-payer health insurance. It’s playing right into the president’s hands.Gerald Seib, a columnist at The Wall Street Journal, wrote earlier this week that “Democrats have arrived at a moment of great opportunity, but also of great peril.”Increasingly, he argued, the party has becomeidentified with policy proposals that are easy for Republicans to caricature as left-wing extremism. It is a fair bet that a majority of congressional Democrats don’t support either a 70 percent top tax rate or an across-the-board wealth tax on the richest Americans.In addition, Seib noted, “the party is beginning to experience the consequences of a zero-tolerance attitude on perceived misbehavior.”According to Seib, “Democrats face this question: Could they manage to scare off that center just as it has become so available?” The risk, Seib wrote,is that centrist voters will think they see that an angry left wing taking charge. Democrats could appear to be succumbing to the national mood of anger, when the better image might be of hope.In his State of the Union address on Feb. 5, Trump laid the groundwork for an assault on Democrats, declaring:Here, in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country. America was founded on liberty and independence — not government coercion, domination, and control. We are born free, and we will stay free. Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country.I asked Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at Tufts who is one of the directors of the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, whether Democratic primary voters are pushing presidential candidates to take stands on issues further to the left than the general electorate would accept.Contrary to the view of many political analysts, Schaffner countered with data suggesting that this is not the case.“I actually don’t think Democratic primary voters are substantially more liberal than Democrats more broadly,” he wrote, adding that many of the party’s new policy initiatives are, in fact, “favored by a majority of those who voted in 2016.”He cited the following results from the 2016 Cooperative Congressional Election Study survey.Who favored granting legal status to immigrants? Democratic primary voters: 79 percent support; Democrats in general: 77 percent support; all voters: 55 percent support.Who would require minimum amounts of renewable energy? Democratic primary voters: 85 percent support; Democrats in general: 80 percent support; all voters: 61 percent support.Ban assault rifles? Democratic primary voters: 91 percent support; Democrats in general: 84 percent support; all voters: 64 percent.Eliminate mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent offenders? Democratic primary voters: 84 percent support; Democrats in general: 78 percent support; all voters: 67 percent.How about raising the minimum wage to $12 per hour? Democratic primary voters: 92 percent support; Democrats in general: 90 percent support; all voters: 65 percent.Along similar lines, four political scientists, John Sides and Christopher Warshaw of George Washington University, and Lynn Vavreck and Chris Tausanovitch of UCLA, write in a March 2018 paper, “On the Representativeness of Primary Electorates” that “primary voters are frequently characterized as an ideologically extreme subset of their party, and thus partially responsible for increasing party polarization in government.” On the contrary, they find “that primary voters are similar to rank and file voters in their party” and thus “the composition of primary electorates does not exert a polarizing effect above what might arise from voters in the party as a whole.”Jacobson of UCSD strongly agreed, arguing that Democrats’ intense dislike of Trump will make them willing to forgive a candidate who fails to adopt all their favored policies if the candidate looks like a winner:Most Democrats will have as their prime goal — far more important than positions taken by the candidates — making sure Trump does not have a second term.The national election survey cited above reveals the depth of the electorate’s divisions on a range of issues in the Trump era.On what may prove to the crucial subject of debate over the next two — impeachment — the public is split.The survey found that a 42.1 plurality favors impeachment, including 24.9 percent who favor it strongly. A slightly smaller 38 percent oppose impeachment, including 30 percent who oppose it strongly. 19.9 percent did not take a stand.Americans are evenly divided in their assessment of Trump’s repeated denials that neither he nor his campaign ever coordinated with Russia to defeat Hillary Clinton. According to the survey, 49.9 percent agreed with the statement “Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign probably coordinated with the Russians,” while 50.1 percent said the campaign “probably did not coordinate.”One of Trump’s signature claims during the 2016 campaign was the promise that he would “drain the swamp” of corruption in the nation’s capital. That promise, according the public, is not holding up well.The survey asked “Has corruption in government increased, decreased, or stayed the same since Donald Trump became president?” The result? More than half, 54 percent, said corruption has increased under Trump, including 26.6 percent who said it has increased “a great deal.” 28 percent said the level of corruption remains unchanged, and 18.4 percent said corruption had decreased. 3.1 percent said corruption had decreased “a great deal.”Trump has railed against the Mueller investigation since it began, calling it an “illegal Joseph McCarthy style Witch Hunt.” Asked about the Mueller investigation, 45.1 of those surveyed said they approved, 16.6 points more than the 28.5 percent who said they disapproved, 19.7 percent “extremely strongly.” 28.4 percent had no opinion.Trump has pushed the authoritarian envelope further than any president (or major party presidential candidate) in recent memory.Let’s turn back to Gary Jacobson. “As long as Trump is on the scene, the nation is bound to remain deeply divided,” Jacobson writes in “Extreme Referendum: Donald Trump and the 2018 Midterm Elections,” which will appear in a forthcoming issue of Political Science Quarterly:To the extent that he reshapes the Republican Party in his white nationalist image, these divisions will deepen further and every election, like the 2018 midterms, will be fought with both sides convinced that nothing less than the future of American democracy is at stake.Norris and Inglehart suggest that the dependence of the populist right on older voters may lead to its steady decline as those voters die off, but they are not confident that this will happen. “It remains to be seen how resilient liberal democracy will be in Western societies, or whether it will be damaged irreparably by authoritarian populist forces” they write at the conclusion of their book. “The problem is not just Trump, nor is it just America. It reflects pervasive economic and cultural changes, for which there are no easy answers.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Advertisement

      By BRAD PLUMER and 
    
BLACKI MIGLIOZZI

FEB. 13, 2019

The United States is reducing its greenhouse gas emissions far too slowly to help avert the worst effects of global warming. But what would happen if the country adopted seven of the most ambitious climate policies already in place around the world?U.S. greenhouse gas emissions are currently projected to stay fairly flat. Reducing them faster would require major advances in clean technology or big shifts in policy. Or both.The U.S. made a pledge under the Paris climate agreement to cut emissions by 2025. It also laid out broad goals for 2050.If the United States adopted an economy-wide carbon tax similar to British Columbia’s, which started small and is set to rise to $37.50 per ton, emissions would start to fall, according to modeling by Energy Innovation, an energy policy firm.The nation could also require utilities to produce all their electricity from zero-carbon sources — like wind, solar or nuclear — by mid-century, following states like New York and California.Because of Norway’s aggressive electric-vehicle incentives, plug-in cars are now half of all new sales there. A similar push in the United States would curb vehicle emissions, though it would take years for millions of older cars to be retired.China has set efficiency targets for industries like cement, steel and petrochemicals. America’s industrial sector could also make further efficiency gains using technologies available today.Since 1978, California has set energy efficiency standards for new homes and commercial buildings that tighten as technology improves. If those stricter standards were adopted nationally, emissions from heating and cooling would decline.The United States and Canada laid out plans in 2016 to curb methane emissions from oil and gas operations. The Trump administration has since abandoned the effort, but following through could have a noticeable impact on overall emissions.If the United States matched the European Union’s legislation to end the use of hydrofluorocarbons,  powerful greenhouse gases used in air-conditioners, refrigerators and foams, the reduction in future emissions could be significant. But we’re still only halfway to zero.Together, these seven policies would slash greenhouse gas emissions in the United States roughly 29 percent below 2005 levels by 2025, and roughly 50 percent by 2050, according to Energy Innovation’s climate policy modeling.To put that in context, under the Paris climate agreement, the United States vowed to cut emissions at least 26 percent by 2025 and laid out a broad goal of reducing emissions 80 percent by midcentury. Assuming these policies worked as intended, they would take the country a big chunk of the way toward deep decarbonization.These are not the only steps the United States could take to address global warming. Many of these policies would be politically tough to enact. But modeling their impact gives a sense of how far the country could, in theory, push down emissions by adopting some of the more forceful practices from around the world.To cut emissions even more quickly and deeply, something the United Nations scientific panel has said is necessary to keep total global warming below 2 degrees Celsius, the United States, along with countries like China and India, would have to go well beyond anything that has been tried to date. That could include a much higher carbon price, investing in advanced clean-energy technologies, retrofitting older buildings, tackling sectors like air travel and shipping, deploying carbon capture systems to further reduce steel and cement emissions, as well as strategies to revitalize forests and curb methane and nitrogen pollution from livestock and farming.Energy Innovation has created an interactive policy simulator, based on their energy model, that lets you see the potential impacts of a wider array of climate policies and technological advances. One takeaway: There are no silver bullets. Pushing emissions to nearly zero would require a slew of actions to clean up nearly every corner of the American economy.MethodologyThe emissions effects from these seven climate policies were modeled by Robbie Orvis and Megan Mahajan of Energy Innovation, using the firm’s open-source energy model. A full description of the model and its assumptions can be found here.Historical emissions include all major greenhouse gases as well as land use and forest sinks, based on national inventories submitted to the United Nations. “Current trend” emissions projections are based on the 2018 Annual Energy Outlook modified to include updated data on technology cost trends as well as projections on non-CO2 greenhouse gases, land use and forestry changes.Here are the specific policies that were modeled for the United States:Carbon tax: The tax on coal, oil and natural gas starts at $7.50 per ton of carbon dioxide in 2020 and reaches $37.50 per ton by 2033. This is based on the rates and schedule for British Columbia’s carbon tax, which began in 2008. (The province rebates most of the tax revenue back to its residents, but our policy makes no assumptions about how the money might be used.) Many of the earliest emissions cuts here come from utilities switching more rapidly away from coal.Clean electricity standard: This policy is partly modeled after existing state-level standards. It requires utilities to increase the amount of electricity they produce from carbon-free sources — including wind, solar, nuclear, hydro, geothermal and biomass — until they reach 100 percent clean electricity in 2050. For comparison, California is steadily increasing its clean electricity requirements to 100 percent by 2045, while New York has announced a 2040 goal.Electric vehicle push: Rather than model Norway’s specific set of electric vehicle tax incentives, this scenario assumes that the United States makes a push to match the rapid recent growth in Norway’s electric vehicle sales over the next eight years. (Between 2011 and 2018, electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids went from 1.6 percent of new sales in Norway to 49 percent.) After 2027, the electric vehicle share of new passenger car sales rises linearly until they account for nearly all of new sales by 2050. This policy does not affect trucks, buses, ships or airplanes.Industrial efficiency standards: The industrial efficiency gains are based on a 2016 Department of Energy study that looked at the potential for the industrial sector to double its energy savings above expected improvements. Our scenario assumes that these industries achieve half of this potential. The model does not account for possible trade impacts from these rules.Building codes: This policy reduces energy use in new homes and buildings. In 2016, the California Energy Commission calculated that the state’s stricter building codes would reduce energy-use intensity by 29 percent for residential buildings and 13 percent for commercial buildings, compared with existing national standards. Our scenario assumes that the United States could achieve similar reductions by 2050 by adopting a California-style standard nationwide. It does not affect energy use in existing buildings.Methane standards: Canada’s methane rules aim to reduce emissions from oil and gas operations 40 to 45 percent below 2012 levels by 2025. The policy in our scenario aims to reduce U.S. methane emissions from oil and gas 40 percent below projected levels by 2030.HFC phaseout: This policy reduces the use of hydrofluorocarbons in line with the requirements under the 2016 Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol, an agreement that the United States signed but has yet to ratify. In comparison with projections of HFC growth, this policy would reduce emissions from fluorinated gases by 96 percent by 2050.The model also captures interactions between these policies. A push to promote electric cars is far more effective at reducing emissions if the grid charging these vehicles is getting cleaner at the same time. Conversely, industrial efficiency standards have a smaller impact if there is already a carbon tax in place spurring companies to find energy savings on their own.There are some important limitations, however. The model assumes these policies all work as intended. But in the real world, utilities could find it prohibitively expensive to get to 100 percent clean electricity without the development of new technologies such as seasonal energy storage, advanced nuclear power or carbon capture. Similarly, even if the United States had Norwegian-style incentives in place for electric vehicles, Americans might not necessarily buy plug-in vehicles at the same rates as Norwegians do.The model’s projections are also highly sensitive to assumptions about future economic growth and technology improvements that are hard to predict 40 years out. A major breakthrough in battery chemistry, for instance, could help speed up the pace of grid decarbonization or electric vehicle adoption.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe doctrine behind MMT was smart but not completely rightBy Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistWell, it looks as if policy debates over the next couple of years will be at least somewhat affected by the doctrine of Modern Monetary Theory, which some progressives appear to believe means that they don’t need to worry about how to pay for their initiatives. That’s actually wrong even if you set aside concerns about MMT analysis, which is something I’ll write about in a companion piece. But first it seems to me that I need to set out what’s right and what’s wrong about MMT.Unfortunately, that’s a very hard argument to have – modern MMTers are messianic in their claims to have proved even conventional Keynesianism wrong, tend to be unclear about what exactly their differences with conventional views are, and also have a strong habit of dismissing out of hand any attempt to make sense of what they’re saying. The good news is that MMT seems to be pretty much the same thing as Abba Lerner’s “functional finance” doctrine from 1943. And Lerner was admirably clear, making it easy to see both the important virtues of and the problems with his argument.So what I want to do in this note is explain why I’m not a full believer in Lerner’s functional finance; I think this critique applies to MMT as well, although if past debates are any indication, I will promptly be told that I don’t understand, am a corrupt tool of the oligarchy, or something.OK, Lerner: His argument was that countries that (a) rely on fiat money they control and (b) don’t borrow in someone else’s currency don’t face any debt constraints, because they can always print money to service their debt. What they face, instead, is an inflation constraint: too much fiscal stimulus will cause an overheating economy. So their budget policies should be entirely focused on getting the level of aggregate demand right: the budget deficit should be big enough to produce full employment, but no so big as to produce inflationary overheating.This is a smart take, and at the time he wrote – coming off the 1930s, with a reasonable expectation that the economy would lapse back into chronic weakness once the war was over – was a much better guide to policy than conventional fiscal thinking. And it also looks pretty good in today’s world, where we once again had a long period of depressed demand despite zero interest rates and still look pretty fragile. Indeed, it looks vastly better than the “Eek! We’re turning into Greece!” panic that dominated policy discussion for much of the 2010s.So what are the problems? First, Lerner really neglected the tradeoff between monetary and fiscal policy. Second, while he did address the potential problem of snowballing debt, his response didn’t fully address the limitations, both technical and political, on tax hikes and/or spending cuts. Introducing these limitations makes debt potentially more of a problem than he acknowledges.From a modern perspective, “Functional finance” is really cavalier in its discussion of monetary policy. Lerner says that the interest rate should be set at the level that produces “the most desirable level of investment,” and that fiscal policy should then be chosen to achieve full employment given that interest rate. What is the optimal interest rate? He doesn’t say – maybe because through the 30s the zero lower bound made that point moot.Anyway, what actually happens at least much of the time – although, crucially, not when we’re at the zero lower bound – is more or less the opposite: political tradeoffs determine taxes and spending, and monetary policy adjusts the interest rate to achieve full employment without inflation. Under those conditions budget deficits do crowd out private spending, because tax cuts or spending increases will lead to higher interest rates. And this means that there is no uniquely determined correct level of deficit spending; it’s a choice that depends on how you value the tradeoff.What about debt? A lot depends on whether the interest rate is higher or lower than the economy’s sustainable growth rate. If r<g, which is true now and has mostly been true in the past, the level of debt really isn’t too much of an issue. But if r>g you do have the possibility of a debt snowball: the higher the ratio of debt to GDP the faster, other things equal, that ratio will grow. And debt can’t go to infinity – it can’t exceed total wealth, and in fact as debt gets ever higher people will demand ever-increasing returns to hold it. So at some point the government would be forced to run large enough primary (non-interest) surpluses to limit debt growth.Now, Lerner basically acknowledges this point. But he assumes that the government always can and will run these surpluses as needed. He dismisses any concern about the incentive effects of high tax rates; certainly Very Serious People grossly exaggerate these effects, but they’re not completely imaginary. And he says nothing at all about the political difficulty of achieving the required surpluses, yet such difficulties seem likely to be central if debt gets to very high levels.A numerical example may help make the point. Imagine that one way or another we get up to debt equal to 300 percent of GDP, and that r-g = .015 – the interest rate is 1.5 percentage points above the growth rate. Then stabilizing the ratio of debt to GDP would require a primary surplus equal to 4.5 percent of GDP.That’s not impossible: Britain ran surpluses that big for several decades after Waterloo. But it’s a lot to ask of a modern polity. Are we going to slash Medicare and Social Security? Are we going to impose a value-added tax, not to finance new programs, but simply to service the debt? It’s possible, but you do have to wonder whether the temptation to engage in some form of financial repression/debt restructuring/inflation would prevail. And more to the point, investors would wonder about that, pushing r-g even higher.The bottom line is that while functional finance has a lot going for it, it’s not the kind of axiomatically true doctrine that Lerner – and, I think, modern MMTers – imagined it to be. Deficits and debt can matter, and not just because of the effects of deficit spending on aggregate demand.That said, I don’t think these objections are all that central to the budget issues facing progressives in the near future. You don’t have to be a deficit scold or debt-worrier to believe that really big progressive programs will require major new revenue sources. But I’ll explain that in my next post.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Isabella KwaiSYDNEY, Australia — The Australian Parliament on Wednesday narrowly passed legislation that would let some asylum seekers being held on remote Pacific islands come to Australia for medical treatment, a blow to Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who had strongly opposed the measure.Under Australia’s offshore detention policy, asylum seekers who try to reach the country by boat are barred from ever settling there. About 1,000 migrants intercepted at sea have spent years on the tiny island nation of Nauru or on Manus Island in Papua New Guinea, under conditions that visiting experts have described as dire.The detention policy has been condemned by the United Nations and various human rights groups, and Australians who oppose it celebrated the 75 to 74 vote in the House of Representatives on Tuesday and the 36 to 34 vote in the Senate on Wednesday.“This victory breaks the political deadlock that has poisoned our refugee policy for years,” Hugh de Kretser, executive director of the Human Rights Law Center, said on Twitter. “It sends a message that the cruelty must stop.”Jana Favero, a director at the Asylum Seeker Resource Center, called the vote a “tipping point as a country.”“No matter where people sit in the asylum or offshore processing debate,” she said, “people are united in believing that sick people in our care deserve access to medical treatment.”Mr. Morrison’s center-right governing coalition lost its single-seat majority in the House last year, and the vote on Tuesday appeared to be the first time since 1941 that a government had lost a vote on legislation in that chamber. With elections expected in May, Mr. Morrison’s coalition is trailing the opposition Labor Party in most polls.Medical experts have described the situation for the detainees on Manus and Nauru as nearing a crisis point. This month, the government said that all child asylum seekers would leave the detention center in Nauru, after doctors said that children there were showing signs of extreme withdrawal from reality.Since 2014, 12 people have died in the offshore detention centers. In 2018, a coroner ruled that a more timely medical transfer could have prevented the death of Hamid Khazaei, an Iranian asylum seeker detained on Manus, from a leg infection.But Mr. Morrison’s government says the detention policy has saved lives by discouraging asylum seekers from trying to make the dangerous sea voyage from Indonesia. Before the policy was introduced in 2013, overcrowded boats often capsized while trying to reach Australia.“This Parliament has already tipped its hand enough to the people smugglers,” Mr. Morrison said in Canberra, the capital, before the vote on Wednesday. “To anyone who thinks they should get on a boat: I’m here and I will stop you.”Mr. Morrison, a former immigration minister, said he would reopen a detention center on Christmas Island, an Australian island territory, to address the prospect of future arrivals. He said he would also press for tougher national security steps in response.His government had argued that the bill was a step toward ending the detention policy, and that some of the asylum seekers would be a security threat if allowed into the country. The new law includes a number of amendments that were added to assuage such concerns.It says that asylum seekers and their families can be brought to Australia for medical treatment if two or more doctors say it is needed. But the home affairs minister can reject the request. An independent medical panel would review that decision, but the minister can still refuse the medical transfer on national security grounds, or if the asylum seeker has a serious criminal record.Mr. Morrison said the vote showed that the Labor Party could not be trusted with Australia’s security. The Labor Party backed the medical transfer legislation but supports the broader offshore detention policy.Behrouz Boochani, a Kurdish-Iranian writer who has been on Manus Island for more than five years, welcomed the vote on Twitter.“Many people are happy now because they will finally receive medical treatment,” Mr. Boochani said. “Great to see the Australian parliament finally vote for humanity.”Jenina Ibañez contributed reporting.Follow Isabella Kwai on Twitter: @bellakwaiWant more Australia coverage and discussion? Join us in our Facebook group, sign up for the weekly Australia Letter and start your day with the Australian Morning Briefing.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Astead W. HerndonFrom the very first day of the 2020 presidential race, when Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts blamed “generations of discrimination” for black families earning far less than white households, Democratic hopefuls have broadly emphasized racial justice and closing the wealth gap in their policy platforms.But in recent weeks, some candidates have started embracing specific goals and overtly race-conscious legislation that even the most left-wing elected officials stayed away from in recent years.Last week, on the popular radio show “The Breakfast Club,” Senator Kamala Harris of California agreed with a host’s suggestion that government reparations for black Americans were necessary to address the legacies of slavery and discrimination. Ms. Harris later affirmed that support in a statement to The New York Times.“We have to be honest that people in this country do not start from the same place or have access to the same opportunities,” she said. “I’m serious about taking an approach that would change policies and structures and make real investments in black communities.”Ms. Warren also said she supported reparations for black Americans impacted by slavery — a policy that experts say could cost several trillion dollars, and one that Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders and many top Democrats have not supported.The Warren campaign declined to give further details on that backing, but it came amid her calls for the federal government to provide special home-buying assistance to residents of communities that were adversely affected by “redlining,” the discriminatory practice of denying mortgages, usually in poor and nonwhite areas. She also announced a sweeping universal child-care proposal that could strongly benefit minority communities that often have limited early childhood services.The morally driven policy goals of Ms. Harris and Ms. Warren reflect a broader shift in the importance of race and identity issues in the Democratic Party, according to several scholars and political leaders who focus on the intersection of race and politics. While Democrats have long cast themselves as more inclusive than the Republican Party, grass-roots organizers and many liberal voters of all races are now pushing elected officials to go further on policies of racial equality, regardless of any political calculations.But race-conscious policies could emerge as a fissure in a wide-open Democratic primary, as some moderate candidates seek to run against the party’s recent leftward lurch. There are also political risks for the general election: Republicans have long attempted to paint Democrats who embrace policies that address racial inequalities as anti-white, and polling often shows reparations for black Americans remains an unpopular policy across the country.That two leading Democratic candidates have embraced reparations — the concept that the federal government should both acknowledge the ongoing legacy of slavery and discrimination and provide compensatory payment to those affected — is a major shift from past presidential campaigns and a win for activists who have tried to push the issue into the mainstream for decades. Julián Castro, the former cabinet secretary who is also running for president, has also indicated that he would support reparations.Even among the 2020 Democrats who stopped short of endorsing reparations, several have laid out robust policies aimed at closing the gap in wealth between black and white families. Scholars estimate that black families in America today earn just $57.30 for every $100 in income earned by white families, according to the Census Bureau’s Current Population Survey. For every $100 in white family wealth, black families hold just $5.04.Senator Cory Booker’s “baby bonds” policy aims to help poorer children by giving them a government-funded savings account that could total up to $50,000 for the lowest income brackets. The plan has been praised by liberal scholars, who think it could go a long way in helping lower-income Americans begin to build wealth. And Senator Kirsten Gillibrand has endorsed a proposal to allow Americans without checking accounts to bank at the local post office; a disproportionate percentage of America’s unbanked population are people of color.María Urbina, national policy director for the progressive group Indivisible, said that after years of being pushed by activists, the Democratic Party was getting closer to applying its liberal values to racial equality. Policies like reparations or “baby bonds” that seek to close the racial wealth gap, she said, should be viewed similarly to idealistic programs that have been embraced by Democrats seeking the presidential nomination, including the Green New Deal and “Medicare for all.”“We want folks who are being ambitious, not just working within the margins and the contours of what we had before, but sort of reimagining things on our own terms and being really aspirational,” Ms. Urbina said.Sandy Darity, a Duke University professor who is a leading scholar on reparations and the racial wealth gap, said he believes more black Americans may come to see reparations as a defining issue for their support.“There is a point in black Americans making a collective decision to treat a candidate’s attitude toward reparations as a litmus test for supporting them,” Dr. Darity said. “I think if folks had paid closer attention to the fact that Barack Obama was against reparations, they would have not been as disappointed by his presidency, because they would have had more realistic expectations about what he was likely to do.”Among Democrats, the idea of reparations has been unpopular until very recently. For more than two decades, Representative John Conyers, the Detroit Democratic stalwart who resigned in December 2017, repeatedly introduced a reparations bill to Congress that received little support from either party.Mr. Sanders, the Vermont leftist whose rhetoric of a political revolution won him throngs of supporters in the last Democratic primary and disrupted the party establishment, dismissed the idea of reparations as politically unpalatable in January 2016, upsetting some racial justice activists who found his answer hypocritical. Mrs. Clinton, who beat Mr. Sanders for the 2016 nomination, also declined to support reparations.Mr. Obama, the country’s first black president, was seen in some political quarters as reticent about prioritizing the interests of black voters, and he called the idea of reparations impractical in 2016.“I’m not so optimistic as to think that you would ever be able to garner a majority of an American Congress that would make those kinds of investments, above and beyond the kinds of investments that could be made in a progressive program for lifting up all people,” Mr. Obama said.As Ms. Warren and Ms. Harris seek to lead the party into a new era, their support for the policy — which did not come with specifics — signals just how quickly prominent Democrats have expanded their political imagination after decades of dominance by the Clintons and Mr. Obama.Ms. Warren, in particular, has attempted to stake out more aggressive policies to push other Democrats in the race. Her proposal for universal child care would make the service free to any family earning up to double the federal poverty level, and would increase wages for child care workers — two initiatives that could particularly affect black and Latino communities, where informal child-care arrangements are more common.“We must confront the dark history of slavery and government-sanctioned discrimination in this country that has had many consequences, including undermining the ability of black families to build wealth in America for generations,” Ms. Warren told The Times. “We need systemic, structural changes to address that.”Another sign of the party’s shift on race: Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the New York Democrat whose bold policy ideas and devoted national following have upended Capitol Hill, also voiced her support for reparations earlier this month.“Until America tells the truth about itself, we’re not going to heal,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said at a forum with Ta-Nehisi Coates, the writer whose landmark 2014 article, “The Case For Reparations,” helped thrust the issue back into American consciousness.Other Democratic 2020 candidates — including Mr. Booker, Ms. Gillibrand and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota — either did not respond to requests for comment or stopped short of an endorsement of reparations. Instead, several laid out policies that, though not intended as a redress for slavery, would benefit black Americans.Mr. Booker “is running for president to reignite our sense of common purpose to build a more fair and just nation — that means enacting policies that atone for this nation’s history of intentionally discriminatory public policy toward African-Americans,” said Michael Tyler, a spokesman for his campaign. “You cannot address the systemic racism unique to this country without proposing race-conscious solutions.”Darrick Hamilton, a professor at Ohio State University who has worked with Dr. Darity on research regarding inequality, said Mr. Booker’s “baby bonds” plan could substantially transform wealth building measures for poor Americans and minorities and could help minorities grow assets.Dr. Hamilton and Dr. Darity both panned Ms. Harris’s signature economic proposals, which would dramatically expand a tax credit for middle-class families and provide rent relief to those struggling to afford rising home costs. Both proposals are “income-based,” the professors said, and would do little to stem wealth inequality between races.Only one 2020 candidate has laid out a reparations plan with specifics: Marianne Williamson, the best-selling author and self-described “spiritual teacher.” Since the start of her long-shot campaign, Ms. Williamson has called for $100 billion in reparations for black Americans — far more than any other Democrat, but substantially less than what scholars have said would be necessary.“Paltry,” Dr. Darity said of Ms. Williamson’s plan.Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.  @AsteadWesley AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAbolish bad policy instead. By Will WilkinsonMr. Wilkinson is a contributing opinion writer. Billionaires are in notably bad odor with many people on the left. Socialists have long held that large stores of private wealth are tantamount to violence against those in need. But regular nonradical folks not on the left are fed up, too. Howard Schultz’s potential independent White House bid is simply infuriating, and it’s maddening to feel helplessly tangled in the gilded web of global intrigue emanating from the president, his plutocrat dictator pals and America’s retail overlord, the philandering Jeff Bezos.Thanks at least in part to Bernie Sanders and the sizzling rise of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, this dry wick has met a spark. Enthusiasm for radical leveling is whistling out of the hard-left fringe and blossoming into a mainstream mood.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s policy adviser, Dan Riffle, contends that “every billionaire is a policy failure” (that’s the tagline on his Twitter handle) because “the acquisition of that much wealth has bad consequences” and “a moral society needs guardrails against it.” He’d like to see the 2020 Democratic primary contenders answer a question: Can it be morally appropriate for anyone to be a billionaire? It’s a compelling litmus test. I’d also like to watch would-be Democratic nominees take it. However, I hope that they would stick up for the idea that it can be morally kosher to bank a billion and that the existence of virtuous three-comma fortunes is a sign not of failure but of supreme policy success.The empirical record is quite clear about the general form of national political economy that produces the happiest, healthiest, wealthiest, freest and longest lives. There’s no pithy name for it, so we’ll have to settle for “liberal-democratic welfare-state capitalism.” There’s a “social democratic” version, which is what you get in countries like Sweden, Norway and the Netherlands. And there’s a “neoliberal” (usually English-speaking) version, which is what you get in countries like Canada, New Zealand and the United States.You may prefer one version over the other, but they’re not all that different. And in comparative terms, they’re all insanely great. The typical citizen of these countries is as well-off as human beings have ever been. These places are the historical pinnacle of policy success.But guess what? There are billionaires in all of them. Egalitarian Sweden, an object of ardent progressive adoration, has more billionaires per capita than the United States. Six countries outrank the United States on a well-being index and also have more billionaires per capita.Human Development Index rankBillionairesper capita rank1234567791011121314151617171920NorwaySwitzerlandAustraliaIrelandGermanyIcelandHong KongSwedenSingaporeNetherlandsDenmarkCanadaUnited StatesBritainFinlandNew ZealandLiechtensteinBelgiumJapanAustria841311127265271615101914311444118By The New York Times | Sources: Forbes; United Nations; World BankSo what’s the problem? Preventing billion-dollar hoards guards against the bad consequences of … having the best sort of polity that has ever existed? The progressive idea here is usually that people with vastly more wealth than the common run of citizens wield vastly disproportionate political power and therefore imperil democracy and the equal worth of our basic rights. It’s a worry we’ve got to take seriously, but it’s based more in abstract theorizing than empirical analysis. Inspect any credible international ranking of countries by democratic quality, equal treatment under the law or level of personal freedom. You’ll find the same passel of billionaire-tolerant states again and again. If there are billionaires in all the places where people flourish best, why think getting rid of them will make things go better?It can be tempting to think that there’s no morally decent way to accumulate that much wealth. And it’s true that scads of the filthy rich got that way through theft, exploitation and the subtler corruption of anti-competitive rules in politically rigged markets. (You may have heard of Donald Trump.)But there’s a big moral difference between positive-sum wealth production and zero-sum wealth extraction — a difference that corresponds to a rough-and-ready distinction between the deserving and undeserving rich. The distinction is sound because there’s a proven a way to make a moral killing: improve a huge number of other people’s lives while capturing a tiny slice of the surplus value. Consider Dr. Gary Michelson, a spinal surgeon and inventor worth an estimated $1.8 billion. He lives in Los Angeles. Dr. Michelson holds hundreds of patents on medical devices and procedures that have made spinal surgery more effective. He got rich by making it so that people with spinal injuries could walk again or suffer less debilitating pain.According to William Nordhaus, the Nobel Prize-winning economist, innovators capture about 2 percent of the economic value they create. The rest of it accrues to consumers. Whatever that is, it’s not a raw deal. The accumulation of these innovations over time is the mechanism that drives compounding economic growth, which accounts for a vast improvement over the past 100 years in the typical American standard of living. Some people may have made an ungodly sum in the course of helping make this humanitarian miracle happen, but that’s O.K. This isn’t to say that the deserving rich deserve every penny they get. In a better world, billionaires like Dr. Michelson would probably have less. Policy failure is rife, and it’s bound to account for a portion of even the best-deserved fortunes. Patents, for example, are government-granted monopolies meant to incentivize innovation. But the evidence suggests we’ve overshot the mark, and the pace of innovation would quicken, and many of America’s biggest fortunes would shrink, if patent protections were weakened.Along similar lines, few of us object to J.K. Rowling making a mint entertaining billions of kids (and adults), but much of her net worth is because of merchandising profits built on unjustifiably ironclad intellectual property rights, which have deprived billions of the joys of knockoff Harry Potter toys and stories. Nearly every real-world market is defined to some extent by rules that limit competition, concentrate wealth and leave the rest of us poorer than we might have been. A small number of people have too much housing wealth because we’ve made it too hard to build. Financial innovation makes new markets and improves the allocation of resources, but Wall Street tycoons also reap huge rewards from winning wasteful arbitrage arms races, skimming off transactions and nickel-and-diming consumers with inscrutable fees.Fixing these policy failures might create a system that produces fewer billionaires. But that shouldn’t be the point. It might also produce more morally worthy 10-figure fortunes. That’s great, because we should be aiming to channel entrepreneurial energy into productive wealth creation that lifts us all up and away from the extraction of wealth through unjust rules that close off opportunity and deprive us of the blessings of innovation.There is a possible America where routes to extractive wealth have been closed and barriers to productive wealth have been cleared; where the wealthiest have somewhat less, and the rest of us have a great deal more. In this America, our economy and democracy are more equitable and less corrupt, and the least well-off fare better than ever. We should dearly want to live there, in a place where, if you can manage to become one, it’s more than “morally appropriate” to be a billionaire.Will Wilkinson is a contributing opinion writer and the vice president for research at the Niskanen Center.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Daisuke WakabayashiSAN FRANCISCO — Google said it would no longer force employees to settle disputes with the company in private arbitration, expanding on an earlier pledge to do away with the practice in cases of sexual harassment or assault.Google informed its staff in an email on Thursday that the new policy would take effect globally on March 21 for current and future employees. Gina Scigliano, a Google spokeswoman, confirmed the changes.In November, the company agreed to scrap forced arbitration in individual cases of sexual harassment or assault after 20,000 Google workers staged a walkout demanding changes to how it treats employees. The walkout was prompted by a New York Times article that revealed Google had given a senior executive, Andy Rubin, a $90 million exit package even after it found he had been credibly accused of sexual harassment.The employee organizers behind the walkout demanded that Google also stop forcing employees into arbitration for other types of disputes. Google said it had decided to make the blanket change after comparing its policies with those of other companies. Employees who prefer to arbitrate privately will still have that option.“This victory never would have happened if workers hadn’t banded together, supported one another and walked out,” Google Walkout for Real Change, the organizer behind last year’s employee walkout, wrote on Twitter. “Collective action works. Worker power works. This is still just the beginning.”Google had 98,771 employees globally at the end of December.For years, Google’s employment contracts have included a clause requiring staff to hash out grievances behind closed doors instead of suing the company in the public court system.Arbitration is a common practice among technology companies to resolve disputes outside the courts. It has been especially controversial in cases of sexual harassment because it tends to limit victims from speaking out about their experience.But under growing pressure from employees, companies are eliminating forced arbitration. Over the last year, Uber, Lyft and Facebook have done away with the policy totally or in part.Google said the policy change would not apply to former employees with unresolved disputes, although current Google workers with open disputes will not be forced into arbitration.The company said it would also do away with the practice for temporary staff, contract workers and vendors it hires — although it would not force third-party staffing companies that supply the vast majority of contractor staff used by the company to adhere to the policy.Follow Daisuke Wakabayashi on Twitter: @daiwaka.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLayWELLINGTON, New Zealand — This week, as New Zealanders worried about rising tensions with China, a Chinese state newspaper published an opinion piece by a former prime minister of New Zealand, apparently hailing China’s achievements. “We need to learn to listen to China,” the headline read.There was one problem with the article: Jenny Shipley, the former leader named in the byline, was not its author.The publication on Monday of the op-ed piece in People’s Daily, an official government newspaper, makes Mrs. Shipley the latest prominent foreigner to have been presented in the Chinese state news media as being supportive of the Communist Party’s policies at a time that suits Beijing’s purposes. This and other examples of foreign scholars and journalists depicted as offering glowing praise about China are part of a propaganda effort in recent years to lend credibility to the party’s talking points.In the op-ed attributed to Mrs. Shipley, she appeared to hail China’s progress on the education, employment and development of women and on reducing poverty. It also said that China’s Belt and Road Initiative — a major geopolitical campaign by President Xi Jinping to link Asia with more bridges, trains and ports — was “one of the greatest ideas we’ve ever heard globally.”Mrs. Shipley did not respond to a request for comment. She told The New Zealand Herald that she had made the comments in a December interview with People’s Daily but had not written an opinion piece as it was presented on the newspaper’s website. She told CNN that the quotes attributed to her were correct.But unlike some others who have suffered the same fate, Mrs. Shipley did not immediately disown the substance of her remarks.On the People’s Daily’s website, a sentence saying that Mrs. Shipley made the remarks during an interview in December was added to the bottom of the article this week after it ran, but her byline remains on it.The publication did not respond to a request for comment.Several other scholars and writers have had experiences similar to Mrs. Shipley’s. Rory Medcalf, an Australian expert on China and head of the National Security College at the Australian National University in Canberra, no longer gives interviews to Chinese news media outlets after an op-ed he had not written appeared under his name in China’s Global Times newspaper in 2012.He said that, as was the case with Mrs. Shipley, he had given an interview that was published as an opinion piece. He added, however, that crucial details of what he said had also been changed.“The Chinese state media are at great pains to point out to the Chinese people that foreigners actually are generally positive about the direction China is taking,” Professor Medcalf said. “Of course that isn’t exactly the case.”“It’s about co-opting foreign voices to give credibility to everything that the leadership in China is doing,” he said. Mrs. Shipley’s name, he added, would carry weight in China because of her former role.For precisely that reason, Mrs. Shipley has drawn flak for the op-ed since it came out.Winston Peters, New Zealand’s foreign minister, said the timing of the piece was “very unwise.” He added, in remarks to reporters, that Mrs. Shipley “needs to explain those words.”Mrs. Shipley told The Herald she would “never think of getting into a public situation like this at such an important time for New Zealand’s relationship.”Concerns have been growing in New Zealand that the country might become the latest target of Beijing’s scorn after it blocked Huawei, a Chinese technology giant, from supplying technology for a mobile data network in November. In doing so, New Zealand joined the United States and Australia in rejecting Huawei equipment.Worries about the state of bilateral ties grew last week after the planned opening of a New Zealand-China tourism initiative was canceled and an Air New Zealand flight bound for Shanghai returned to Auckland over an administrative issue. Exporters also said they had begun to have difficulty getting products into China, although New Zealand’s government said it had not substantiated any such claims.The People’s Daily op-ed with Mrs. Shipley’s byline ran the same day that New Zealand’s current prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, was forced to deny that the country’s relationship with China was deteriorating.“China is a very important and highly valued partner for New Zealand,” Ms. Ardern said in a statement to reporters on Monday.Anne-Marie Brady, a scholar of China at the University of Canterbury in Christchurch, New Zealand, who has written on what she calls China’s network of influence in New Zealand, said in an email that it was “quite extraordinary” to see the Communist Party’s main newspaper create an op-ed using someone’s byline without their permission.“This is especially so when that person is the former prime minister” of New Zealand, and when relations between the countries are so tense, she wrote.The incident may lead to further scrutiny of Mrs. Shipley’s ties to China.After serving as prime minister of New Zealand from 1997 to 1999, Mrs. Shipley took on roles as chairwoman of the China Construction Bank NZ and Oravida NZ, a food export company that serves the Chinese market. She was pictured in the Chinese news media, along with other former world leaders, attending a December forum hosted by Mr. Xi, China’s president — around the time she said she had given the interview.Javier C. Hernández contributed reporting from Beijing. Albee Zhang contributed research from Beijing.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del Real, Caitlin Dickerson and Miriam JordanTIJUANA, Mexico — Pushed beyond their limits by prolonged waits in dangerous and squalid conditions in parts of Northern Mexico, thousands of caravan members who had been waiting to seek asylum in the United States appear to have given up, Mexican officials said, dealing President Trump an apparent win after a humbling week for his immigration agenda.About 6,000 asylum seekers who had traveled en masse, many of them in defiance of Mr. Trump’s demands that they turn around, arrived in Northern Mexico in late November as part of a caravan that originated in Honduras. Since then, more than 1,000 have accepted an offer to be returned home by the Mexican government, the officials said. Another 1,000 have decided to stay in Mexico, accepting work permits that were offered to them last fall, at the height of international consternation over how to deal with the growing presence of migrant caravans.Mr. Trump resorted on Friday to declaring a national emergency after he failed to secure funding from Congress for a border wall that he said would block migrants from entering the United States. But the data from Mexican officials suggested that harsh policies he has introduced to crack down on asylum seekers may already be achieving some of its intended effects.Added this week to new policies that are bearing down on asylum seekers — which include tight limits on the number of people who can apply for the status each day and a heightened standard of proof to qualify — was the extension of a rule that certain asylum seekers must wait in Mexico for the full duration of their legal cases, which can take years.[Read the first edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The requirement originally applied only to adults, but the Department of Homeland Security expanded it to include families with children as well.Among those who have been dissuaded, at least for now, is Natali, 32, who asked to be identified only by her first name because she feared for her safety. Speaking from her modest apartment atop a steep hill in western Tijuana, she explained that she and her husband had fled their home in El Progreso, Honduras, after she witnessed a murder carried out by a local criminal gang. Soon after, she began to receive threats in the mail warning her to keep quiet.Once in Mexico, they heard about the increasingly long odds of receiving asylum in the United States, and feared more than anything that officials there would return them to their home country. Rather than crossing the border, they decided to seek humanitarian visas to remain in Mexico legally for at least one year, and have slowly begun to build a life.She still believes she might ask for asylum in the United States, but is realistic about her chances. “I like Tijuana,” she said. “It’s a very pretty city and there’s a lot of work.” More than anything, she fears the United States would deport her back to Honduras.Mexican officials said the data on people who have deferred or given up their quest for asylum in the United States reinforced an idea that is often raised by Mr. Trump: that many caravan members are not truly desperate for protection.“What happened is that many people came on an adventure, trying their luck,” said Cesar Palencia, Tijuana’s chief of migrant services. “When they realized that it was hard to cross and the conditions in Mexico were also difficult, among many factors, they decided to return home.”The Honduran caravan ballooned in size as it swept through impoverished villages, drawing a swarm of national media attention and an eclectic mix of participants. Many came from poverty, lacking education and resources, and said they were unfamiliar with the complex set of laws that would ultimately determine who would be granted legal status in the United States, and who would not.Immigrant advocates said that hype and false promises had attracted a group that was somewhat unrepresentative of typical asylum seekers. But they pointed to the roughly 4,000 members who had successfully entered the United States and had at least requested protected status to argue that most had legitimate claims.Michelle Brané, the director of migrant rights and justice at the Women’s Refugee Commission, warned that while Mr. Trump’s tough policies may discourage the undeserving, they might also endanger people who need protection. She said they would likely drive vulnerable migrants into the arms of human traffickers, who promise to provide passage into the United States.“It may look like it’s working in the short term,” Ms. Brané said, “But I don’t think it’s a long-term solution. It’s driving people further into the shadows and that’s exactly the opposite of what we want.”When they arrived in Mexico, many of the caravan members had been living in squalor, sleeping in tents or lean-tos inside the Benito Juárez sports complex. A downpour devastated the grounds, and those who remained fled to a new expansive shelter called Barretal on the outskirts of Tijuana. Once packed with 2,500 people, that location also recently closed because it had shrunk to fewer than 200.“It is not the same as when we had Barretal and Benito Juárez,” said Esme Flores, an immigrant-rights advocate at the San Diego office of the American Civil Liberties Union. “It really feels that the population has moved on.”On Friday, all that remained of the formerly bustling migrant quarter around the Barretal shelter was a small camp around the corner, only partially covered by a tin roof. The conditions are far from comfortable, but the occupants said it was better than sleeping on sidewalks.Most were not yet ready to give up trying to enter the United States, but knew of others who had. Elde Rodriguez, 26, said he had left Honduras hoping to send money back to his wife and daughter. Believing that he would not qualify for asylum, he tried last week to cross the border illegally but he and a friend were unable to find their away across and turned back.“There’s enough work here in Mexico, and you can live on that if you’re alone. But you can’t make enough to send money home, and that’s the point about all this,” he said. “If I can’t get in, I’ll just keep trying.”While Tijuana appears to be emptying, large groups of migrants have accumulated in other areas along the border as a result of the new policies. After a riot the day before, authorities in Mexico said on Friday that they would disband a group of 1,400 Central American asylum seekers who had been waiting in the city of Piedras Negras to cross the border into Eagle Pass, Tex., according to news reports.The Trump administration has said that the latest policy requiring asylum seekers to wait in Mexico, which it called Migrant Protection Protocols, is a vital response to a crisis at the border. Kirstjen Nielsen, secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, has said the policy aims to alleviate a humanitarian crisis on the border and secure the United States. Introduced as a pilot program across the border from San Diego, the administration plans to expand the policy into Texas.Border Patrol apprehensions of families along the southwest border remain near all-time highs, though there was a slight downward turn in January, as is often the case, according the latest government figures. Customs and Border Protection said more than 1,800 Central American parents and children crossed the border illegally on Monday, the largest number of families recorded on a single day. And like other asylum policies of this administration, the “remain in Mexico” policy has already drawn legal scrutiny, leaving its future uncertain.On Thursday, the American Civil Liberties Union and two other groups sued the administration on behalf of 11 asylum seekers who were required to wait in Mexico, claiming that the policy, which was introduced last month at the San Ysidro port of entry, near San Diego, violates United States and international laws.The lawsuit was filed in federal court in the Northern District of California on behalf of migrants from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador who feared for their lives in Mexico, according to the complaint.One of them was robbed at gunpoint and told by the assailant that he would be killed if he was seen again. Two others said that they had been threatened by local residents wielding rocks or sticks. Another plaintiff said he had to bribe a police officer to avoid arrest.“Asylum seekers in Mexico face a heightened risk of kidnapping, disappearance, trafficking, sexual assault and murder, among other harms,” said the complaint.In December, the A.C.L.U. successfully sued the administration over another new rule that became known as the “asylum ban” because it significantly restricted the locations where people could request the status. That policy remains enjoined by a federal court; the Supreme Court declined to reinstate it.Like members of the caravan, many of those who continue to come to the United States each day lack a comprehensive understanding of the system they are entering.Ela Marina Rodriguez, 49, and her daughter, Duña Ventura, 16, arrived in Tijuana about three weeks ago and were taken to the small shelter by a man whom they had been traveling with. Ms. Rodriguez said she had heard on the news that bringing her daughter would guarantee them admission into the United States, and the two thought if they could make it through the journey they would have an opportunity for a better life.“That’s why we came all this way,” she said. “I’ve dreamed of doing this my entire life but I was afraid. Hiding through the desert and the mountains, I never had the courage before, until we heard they were giving papers to families.”Her eyes grew wide when she heard from a reporter that some asylum seekers are being made to wait in Mexico. She sighed heavily and replied: “I don’t know. I don’t know. I don’t want to be here.”Ms. Rodriguez said that “honestly, yes” she would cross illegally if that is what it takes to get into the United States. But if she is unable to gain entry to the United States, she said, she would likely turn back to Honduras. “I mean, what else can you do in that case?”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Trip Gabriel and Peter EavisThe decision by Amazon this week to abandon its planned headquarters in New York City tapped into one of the major themes of left-wing Democrats: that giant corporations — and in some cases the billionaires who run them — must be held to account for wage inequality, corporate greed and middle-class stagnation.And some contenders and would-be contenders for the party’s 2020 presidential nomination were quick to take a victory lap over the retailer’s sudden reversal.The economic incentives offered the company amounted to no more than “taxpayer bribes,” said Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who accused Amazon of holding American democracy “hostage.”.@Amazon – one of the wealthiest companies on the planet – just walked away from billions in taxpayer bribes, all because some elected officials in New York aren't sucking up to them enough. How long will we allow giant corporations to hold our democracy hostage? https://t.co/O9pz7en43BSenator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who has introduced the “Stop BEZOS Act” to tax companies that he says underpay employees, congratulated New Yorkers “for standing up to the power of Amazon.”Their blunt condemnation of Amazon underscores the extent to which this has become an animating issue for the far left. And their reaction is one act in a broader set of 2020 issues for progressive Democrats that includes the Green New Deal, which proposes far-reaching federal intervention in the economy to tackle climate change, and the determination to rein in leviathan tech companies, whose founders have lost their luster as heroes of a new economy.Candidates and potential candidates perceived as more centrist did not immediately weigh in, reflecting one of the fault lines in a Democratic Party wrestling over who is the best standard-bearer to suit up for a coming titanic struggle with President Trump. Some candidates, like Senators Cory Booker of New Jersey and Kamala Harris of California, have deeper connections to tech companies.The views of centrists may have been channeled by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, who slammed fellow Democrats for putting “their own narrow political interests above their community.”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]The sudden unraveling of the Amazon deal on Thursday meant the company’s promise of 25,000 jobs in New York City would be unfulfilled over opposition to the city and state’s offer of $3 billion in tax incentives, which highlighted the practice of luring businesses to states and cities with promises of big tax breaks.“There are large questions philosophically about whether taxpayers should give billions of dollars to billionaires,” said Gordon Hintz, the Democratic minority leader of the Wisconsin State Assembly, who is a critic of a state deal in 2017 to lure the electronics giant Foxconn with $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies.“There’s frustration in the public right now where wealth is being concentrated, the opportunities for economic mobility are lower, and they see the people who receive these deals seemingly unconcerned with their reality,” he added.Wisconsin, a battleground state that Mr. Trump narrowly won in 2016 as part of his appeal to white blue-collar voters, is certain to be a crossroads of national Democratic contenders ahead of 2020, as they try to win back some of those voters and excite others who stayed home. That Mr. Trump played a role in the Foxconn deal — and jumped in again recently when the Taiwan-based company wavered — is a ready-made target for Democrats inclined to criticize corporate giveaways.Mr. Hintz said the issue played a role in the re-election loss last year of Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican.Even as New York sent Amazon packing, other cities and regions renewed their courtship of the company. On Thursday, Newark officials sent a courier in red to deliver a giant heart-shaped card to the company bearing the Valentine’s Day message that the city and New Jersey “still love u, Amazon!”[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Mr. Booker, who is seeking the Democratic nomination, has made no comment on the deal. A Democratic county chairman in Iowa, Kurt Meyer, who put Mr. Booker up overnight on a recent swing through the state, predicted that criticisms of large corporations would feature in appeals to the party base there, which is more progressive than in many states. Iowa’s $208 million in incentives for an Apple data center near Des Moines with just 50 jobs was debated in last year’s midterm elections.“I suspect the issue will be exploited extensively in Iowa, due in part to our vague but distinct sense of economic insecurity, which, while unrelated to Amazon and Apple, is pretty dry tinder,” Mr. Meyer said.At a CNN town hall in Iowa last month, Ms. Harris was asked if the existence of multibillionaires was “morally defensible.” She replied that the 2017 Republican tax cut bill was “unconscionable” for giving breaks to corporations and those in the top 1 percent but excluding working families.Amazon’s decision to cancel its deal with New York also comes at a time when prominent Democratic lawmakers in Washington are crafting legislation and advocating policies that could constrain or even break up large technology companies.In the past two years, big scandals in the technology sector have made privacy and the security of social media networks hotly debated issues. Russian entities used Facebook’s network to try and influence the 2016 presidential election. The Cambridge Analytica scandal revealed that Facebook users’ data had been misused.Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat and candidate for president, is sponsoring a bill that would require disclosure about who is paying for online political advertising. Ms. Warren supports antitrust policies. Mr. Sanders’s Stop BEZOS Act, named for the chief executive of Amazon, Jeff Bezos, would tax corporations whose low-wage workers find it necessary to rely on food stamps and government health care benefits.The push to step up regulation may have support among the public. In a Pew Research poll last year, 55 percent of the respondents said technology companies had too much power and influence, compared with 37 percent who said the firms had the right amount.But not every party official believes in shaming corporate chieftains and corporations.In northeast Ohio, Representative Tim Ryan, a Democrat whose district recently lost 1,600 jobs with the shutdown of a plant making the Chevrolet Cruze, wrote a letter on Friday imploring Amazon to build a second headquarters there.Mr. Ryan, in an interview, predicted that everyone at the basketball game he planned to attend Friday night at Howland High School, where his daughter is a cheerleader, would be talking about how to lure Amazon and its jobs to the area.Ohio is a swing state that Democrats, including Senator Sherrod Brown, who is weighing a presidential bid, would like to win back in 2020.“It doesn’t serve us well to be hostile to business in general,” Mr. Ryan said. “We need them. We can’t reverse climate change. We can’t rebuild manufacturing. We can’t retool work force development without a partnership with the free enterprise system.”OpinionAmy LiuAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Christina CaronPinterest, a digital platform popular with parents, took an unusual step to crack down on the proliferation of anti-vaccination propaganda: It purposefully hobbled its search box.Type “vaccine” into its search bar and nothing pops up. “Vaccination” or “anti-vax”? Also nothing.Pinterest, which allows people to save pictures on virtual pinboards, is often used to find recipes for picky toddlers, baby shower décor or fashion trends, but it has also become a platform for anti-vaccination activists who spread misinformation on social media.It is an especially effective way to reach parents: 80 percent of mothers and 38 percent of fathers in the United States are on Pinterest, according to 2017 data from comScore. The company has more than 250 million monthly active users and is expected to go public this year.Other platforms like Facebook and YouTube have also been infiltrated with misinformation about vaccines, and are taking steps to combat it. One of YouTube’s policies is to demonetize anti-vaccine videos.But only Pinterest, as first reported by The Wall Street Journal, has chosen to banish results associated with certain vaccine-related searches, regardless of whether the results might have been reputable.“Right now, blocking results in search is a temporary solution to prevent people from encountering harmful misinformation,” said Jamie Favazza, a spokeswoman. The company said it was working with experts to develop a more tailored long-term approach.The changes, which were not publicly announced, started in September and October.Opposition to vaccinations can be traced to the introduction of the first vaccine in the 18th century. Over time most people accepted vaccines, and diseases that could be prevented by them declined. They declined so much, in fact, that the success of vaccines may have muted the dangers associated with those diseases.The World Health Organization identified “vaccine hesitancy” as one of this year’s 10 notable threats to global health.“I think this is stunning,” said Dr. Gregory A. Poland, director of the Mayo Clinic’s Vaccine Research Group in Rochester, Minn. “It shows the magnitude of the problem.”Despite clear evidence that vaccines are effective and safe, some people still choose not to get vaccinated or to vaccinate their children, which has contributed to a surge in measles cases worldwide. In the United States, there have been five measles outbreaks this year and at least 127 individual cases.One or two in 1,000 children who contract this highly contagious disease will die. Last year, measles killed 72 adults and children in the European region, where measles has reached its highest levels in two decades. While measles deaths are rare in developed countries, the illness can have severe lasting consequences, such as vision loss.There are several reasons for vaccine hesitancy: worries about side effects, cost, moral or religious objections, fears about a debunked link to autism and lack of knowledge about immunizations.“We’re just seeing all sorts of misinformation flying around on social media,” said Arthur L. Caplan, head of the Division of Medical Ethics at the New York University School of Medicine, who has been writing about vaccine ethics and policy for 25 years.“Fake news. Fake science,” he said on Friday. “Everybody’s an expert.”Last week, Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, a Democrat and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, wrote a letter to Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, asking what steps the company was taking to prevent anti-vaccine information from being recommended to users. He sent a similar letter to Sundar Pichai, the chief executive of Google, which owns YouTube.YouTube said on Thursday that it started surfacing more authoritative content in late 2017 for people searching for vaccination-related topics, and that its algorithmic changes would become more accurate over time.YouTube also said it does not permit anti-vaccine videos to show ads.“We have strict policies that govern what videos we allow ads to appear on, and videos that promote anti-vaccination content are a violation of those policies,” a YouTube spokeswoman said on Friday. “We enforce these policies vigorously, and if we find a video that violates them we immediately take action and remove ads.”An analysis by The Daily Beast of seven Facebook pages that promote anti-vaccine posts found that the pages had bought a combined 147 Facebook ads that had been viewed millions of times. Most of them targeted women over the age of 25, it reported.“We’ve taken steps to reduce the distribution of health-related misinformation on Facebook, but we know we have more to do,” Andrea Vallone, a Facebook spokeswoman, said in a statement. “We’re currently working on additional changes that we’ll be announcing soon.”The company said it was considering reducing or removing this type of content from recommendations and demoting it in search results.Dr. Poland, an internist who has spent 35 years in the vaccine field, said he often encountered patients who relied on social media when researching health questions.“I will explain to a patient in detail the answer to their question and they’ll look at me and say, ‘Yeah, but I saw on Facebook that …’” he said, his voice trailing off. “You just want to tear your hair out.”Twitter said that it had no specific policy to stem the spread of misinformation about vaccines but that its real-time nature was a “powerful antidote.”“We, as a company, should not be the arbiter of truth,” Katie Rosborough, a Twitter spokeswoman, said in a statement on Friday, adding that the company was working to surface the highest-quality and most relevant content first.For all of these companies, containing the spread of misinformation, particularly about something as emotionally charged as vaccines, will be a lasting challenge as they balance fears about censorship with the need to promote useful content, experts said.“It’s a mess that I don’t see easily solved,” Dr. Poland said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie AstorSenator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts introduced a universal child care proposal on Tuesday, the latest in a series of ambitious policy ideas from Democratic presidential candidates.Ms. Warren’s plan, the Universal Child Care and Early Learning Act, would create a network of government-funded care centers based partly on the existing Head Start network, with employees paid comparably to public-school teachers. Families earning less than 200 percent of the federal poverty level would be able to send their children to these centers for free. Families earning more than that would be charged on a sliding scale, up to a maximum of 7 percent of their income.The plan would be funded by Ms. Warren’s proposed wealth tax on households with more than $50 million in assets, her campaign said.“The guarantee is about what each of our children is entitled to,” Ms. Warren said at a campaign rally in Los Angeles on Monday, announcing her plans to introduce the bill. “Not just the children of the wealthy, not just the children of the well-connected, but every one of our children is entitled to good child care.”Mark Zandi and Sophia Koropeckyj, economists at Moody’s Analytics, estimated that the plan would cost the federal government $70 billion per year more than it currently spends on child care programs, but would be fully covered by revenue from Ms. Warren’s wealth tax. Their cost estimate was based on the assumption that the plan would produce economic growth by giving lower- and middle-class families more spending money, allowing parents to work longer hours, and creating more and higher-paying jobs for child care workers.“The proposal quickly lifts economic growth, as the stimulus created by providing financial support to lower-income and middle-class families more than offsets the negative fallout from increasing taxes on the very wealthy,” Mr. Zandi and Ms. Koropeckyj wrote.Ms. Warren framed the issue broadly: not just as a matter of access to education, but as a means to promote economic growth and address gender inequality in the work force. Mr. Zandi and Ms. Koropeckyj wrote that the cost of child care had “weighed heavily on female labor force participation,” because some women who can’t afford it are unable to work outside the home as a result. In a post on Medium on Tuesday, Ms. Warren repeated a personal story she has often told before: that if it hadn’t been for her Aunt Bee, who helped care for her children, she would have had to quit her job as a law school instructor.Katie Hamm, vice president for early childhood policy at the Center for American Progress Action Fund, a liberal think tank, said that framing was significant. “It reflects the fact that the issue has clearly grown into the public policy sphere and the economic policy sphere, where before it had been relegated to a family policy issue or an education issue,” she said.The Center for American Progress is one of several organizations — also including the National Women’s Law Center and the Center for Law and Social Policy — that Ms. Warren’s staff consulted in developing the proposal.Ms. Hamm said the plan addressed what she identified as the three pillars of child care policy: affordability, quality and wages. Focusing on just one or two of the pillars could have unintended consequences, she said; for instance, a program that subsidized child care and set quality standards could come at the expense of a living wage for providers.Ms. Warren’s plan and her language in presenting it reflect the shifting ground on which the Democratic primary is being fought. Strongly progressive economic plans, which were the exception as recently as 2016, are now the norm, and cost is not as popular an objection as it once was.“When people say, ‘That’s going to be really expensive’ — yes, it is: This will be about four times more than we have invested in our children, but that’s exactly what we need to do,” Ms. Warren said at her rally on Monday. “I am so tired of hearing what the richest country on the face of the earth just can’t afford to do.”Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Patricia CohenThe political opposition that prompted Amazon to walk away from building a corporate headquarters in New York City featured a touchstone of the progressives’ economic agenda: ending tax policies that unfairly reward and pamper the wealthy.But it also exposed a political vulnerability, leaving unclear what alternative strategy they are offering to encourage growth and create the thousands of jobs that Amazon promised to bring to the city.The clash has consequences far beyond New York, going to the heart of a national debate that is likely to dominate the 2020 presidential race: What is the best way to spread prosperity?As Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo fumed that some of his fellow Democrats put “the state’s economic future” at risk, others inside and outside the party saw the scuttled project as evidence that the left doesn’t understand how to generate growth. In a tweet, Lloyd Blankfein, senior chairman of Goldman Sachs, lashed out at progressive Democrats, labeling them as both “anti-progress” and “anti-Democratic.”Those views feed into a powerful, long-held narrative popularized by Ronald Reagan that Democratic policymakers had — as then-Senator Barack Obama put it in 2006 — become “more obsessed with slicing the economic pie than with growing the pie.”For Republicans, Amazon’s retreat is an opportunity to revive beloved barbs and brand Democrats as “job killers” who are all too eager to “tax-and-spend.” Lower taxes for investors and business owners, they argue, is what spurs entrepreneurs to create jobs and spread the wealth.For progressives, defeating a plan that handed tax incentives to a trillion-dollar tech titan is part of a broader effort to discredit what they see as bankrupt economic policies. They argue that workers and the government — two players that have been relegated to the background — should be treated as important engines of growth.Many objections raised in New York by critics like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the freshman congresswoman whose Queens district borders the neighborhood where Amazon was headed, align with economic critiques offered by Democratic presidential contenders. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, for example, have frequently railed against the outsize power of corporations and lopsided tax cuts and incentives that favor the wealthy.Ms. Warren called the state subsidies in the Amazon deal “taxpayer bribes,” while Mr. Sanders said, “This is what the rigged economy is all about.” New York was offering nearly $3 billion in subsidies to Amazon, a company that last year effectively paid half the 21 percent federal corporate tax rate.At the same time, presidential hopefuls have supported policies that bolster workers and the middle class, like an increased minimum wage and rules that ensure overtime pay, as well as substantial public investment. Democrats on the left are also floating ambitious proposals like free college for all, a federal job guarantee, an industrial plan to retool the country’s energy use and higher taxes on the wealthy.The groundwork for these ideas was prepared in recent years by a network of liberal economists, thinkers and activists at research organizations and universities interested in developing a set of policies to displace supply-side economics and trickle-down theory.“The interaction between market and collective action is what leads to our prosperity,” said Joseph Stiglitz, a Nobel-prize winning economist who is coming out with a book about growing the economy in the 21st century. Advances in science and technology, for example, rest on basic research that was first funded by the government and then brought to market by the private sector.Mr. Stiglitz argues this is the kind of alternative explanation of how growth occurs that the Democratic Party needs to offer more vocally. Souped-up competition, lower taxes on the wealthy and hands-off financial regulation, he maintains, have failed to deliver on their promise to supercharge the economy and broadly lift incomes.Nick Hanauer, a Seattle venture capitalist who was an early investor in Amazon and is now a progressive activist and writer, argues that trickle-down theory should be replaced with what he and Eric Liu, a former adviser in Bill Clinton’s administration, call “middle-out economics.”“I believe capitalism is the greatest social technology ever created for generating wealth and prosperity,” he said, “but we’ve confused what’s good for the narrow-short-term interest of a few capitalists for what’s good for capitalism.”The notion that tax cuts for the rich are what cause economic growth and create a thriving middle class is “both wrong and backwards,” Mr. Hanauer said. “The thriving middle class is the cause of economic growth.”The ideas that are capturing attention, particularly in the run-up to the 2020 election, focus more directly on the fortunes of workers and give the government a much more central role in spurring economic growth and distributing wealth.The approach reaches back to the era of Franklin D. Roosevelt for inspiration. The major effort to alter the course of climate change was purposely named the “Green New Deal” — after Roosevelt’s signature policy — precisely for that reason. Several versions of the program exist, but the one introduced by Representative Ocasio-Cortez and Senator Ed Markey of Massachusetts includes “a job guarantee program to assure a living wage job to every person who wants one.”During the recession’s grimmest months, President Obama pushed to fast-track a multibillion-dollar stimulus package — the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 — aimed at creating jobs and spending money on transportation, technology and energy projects. Although the plan was smaller than several left-leaning Democrats wanted, it rested on a shared assumption that cranking up public investment would get the economy moving and put people back to work.How such policies will play out at a time when the unemployment rate has settled in at a low 4 percent will be a source of tension among the party’s various factions. In the past, Democrats have pushed such stimulants during periods of economic weakness. And specific proposals offered by progressives, whether free college or a wealth tax, cause some Democrats to blanch.Nonetheless, many Democrats acknowledge that political and business leaders have tended to focus too narrowly on the winners of pro-growth policies like free trade without paying sufficient attention to losers like laid-off factory workers. It’s a theme that President Trump successfully pushed on the campaign trail in 2016.“You organize the economy so workers have more power that allows them to get fair wages and safe living standards” so they’re not outgunned by corporate power, said Jacob Leibenluft, who led Hillary Clinton’s economic policy team during her presidential campaign and is now executive vice president for policy at the Center for American Progress, a liberal research institute.Democratic centrists and self-described pragmatists now also widely subscribe to critiques of the dominant economic policies of the last couple of decades — particularly that tax policy has not produced vigorous growth. A consensus has also taken shape that the government needs to play a larger role in the economy, raising taxes, investing in public institutions and, to some degree, redistributing income.Two pillars of the Democratic establishment — Lawrence Summers, Treasury secretary during the Clinton administration and the director of President Obama’s National Economic Council, and Jason Furman, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers during the Obama administration — have called for significant public spending on infrastructure, education, health care and more to address slow economic growth and sidelined workers.“Government has to play an important role,” said Mr. Furman, who wrote an article with Mr. Summers last month about putting such policies ahead of reducing the deficit. “If you’re spending more, you have to tax more.”For many Democrats, the shift to a more activist role is overdue. Yet it also comes at a time when the public’s trust in government has dropped to historic lows, according to a December 2017 report from the Pew Research Center.Only 18 percent of Americans said they trust the federal government to do the right thing “just about always” or “most of the time.”Peter Eavis contributed reporting.OpinionBill de BlasioOpinionAmy LiuAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshAiden and Ethan Dvash-Banks are twin brothers who were born minutes apart.But only one of them was considered to be a United States citizen by the State Department. A federal judge ruled this week that was a mistake.The twins are the sons of two married gay men, an American citizen and an Israeli citizen. Aiden was conceived using sperm from his American father and Ethan was conceived using sperm from his Israeli father, court records show. A surrogate mother gave birth to the boys in Canada in 2016.The family sued the State Department for denying Ethan citizenship, drawing attention to a department policy that says that a child born abroad must be biologically related to an American parent to become a citizen. Gay rights activists argued that the policy harms same-sex couples, who often use assisted reproductive technology to have children.“Two kids who have almost identical life experiences and parenting,” said Aaron C. Morris, a lawyer for the family and the executive director of Immigration Equality, a legal advocacy group that worked on the case. “To treat them differently is absurd.”In a ruling on Thursday, Judge John F. Walter of Federal District Court for the Central District of California said that Ethan should be recognized as a citizen since birth. The judge ruled that federal law does not require a child born to married parents to prove a biological relationship with both parents.The State Department said in a statement on Friday that it was reviewing the ruling, but did not respond to questions about what it would mean for the policy going forward.The twins, now 2 years old, were born to Andrew Dvash-Banks, an American citizen, and Elad Dvash-Banks, an Israeli citizen. The couple met in Israel and married in Canada in 2010 before having their sons with the help of assisted reproductive technology, according to their lawsuit.After the twins were born, their parents went to the United States Consulate in Toronto to certify the children’s American citizenship and get United States passports. But they were told that the twins had to take a DNA test to prove a genetic connection to Andrew, the lawsuit said.Ethan was denied citizenship because Andrew was not his biological father, according to a copy of a letter from the State Department included in the lawsuit.“If we were a straight couple and I was an Israeli woman and both of our names were on both kids’ birth certificates, would you ever require us to perform a DNA test?” Elad said in a video about the case posted by the immigration advocacy group.When the Dvash-Bankses decided to move to Los Angeles to be near Andrew’s family in 2017, same-sex marriage had been legalized and three of the four family members were eligible to live in the United States. But Ethan was allowed into the country only on a tourist visa, which expired that December, according to the lawsuit.The couple sued the State Department the next month, with the help of Immigration Equality, the legal advocacy group, which works on behalf of L.G.B.T. immigrants and their families.Mr. Morris, the group’s executive director, said that Ethan was living as an undocumented baby in California, which caused daily anxiety for the family and made it difficult for him to get to know his extended family in Israel.“It took a very long time before he got to meet his grandparents,” Mr. Morris said. “When they did their taxes, they didn’t have a Social Security number for Ethan. Enrolling him in day care was complicated. This was an everyday frustration.”In his ruling this week, Judge Walter called the State Department’s interpretation of the citizenship law “strained.”But the ruling stopped short of striking down the State Department’s policy over all and does not necessarily apply to other families, according to Mr. Morris. Immigration Equality is fighting a similar case in Washington on behalf of a same-sex couple living in London.Mr. Morris said he hoped the ruling would be “persuasive” to other courts and would perhaps compel the government to change its policy voluntarily.“It is one more in a series of cases telling the State Department that they are getting the policy wrong,” he said.For the Dvash-Bankses, at least, the ruling brought fast relief. Afterward, Elad and Andrew told their toddlers the news, as the boys chomped on bananas and smiled.“Not knowing whether Ethan would be allowed to stay in the U.S. is something we went to bed with every night,” Andrew said in a statement issued by the advocacy group.“Now,” he said, “our family is whole and safe.”Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervosh. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAfter nearly three agonizing years, the people are fed up. What’s next — recession, civil unrest or another referendum? By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistSWINDON, England — Mr. and Mrs. Average are said to live in this southwestern English town better known as a political bellwether than for any charm. Its 54.7 percent vote for Brexit in 2016 was one of the first results announced, an early indicator of upheaval. Now, with less than a month until the March 29 deadline for Britain to leave the European Union, it’s again aligned with most of the country, this time in its cluelessness as to what is about to happen.To paraphrase Churchill, much invoked by Brexiteers as a symbol of the rule-Britannia greatness they believe will return once Britain is freed from its European shackles: Never was so little known by so many about so much.Britain is in a funk. “Just get this over with,” is a plea I heard often from Brexit-battered Brits, as if they were waiting to have a limb amputated. After nearly three years, they’re done. All the oxygen has been sucked from the room by the Conservative Prime Minister Theresa May’s floundering attempt to end the country’s 46-year membership in the European Union.It’s not easy to make an egg from an omelet, as Pascal Lamy, the former head of the World Trade Organization, has observed. I grew up in a Britain where “the Continent,” a faintly distasteful geographical mass associated with rabies and garlic, was far away. The E.U. changed that. Now, through finance, trade, law, values and culture, Britain is mixed into a borderless market of 28 nations and more than a half-billion people that has brought peace, stability and an unprecedented, if uneven, prosperity to Europe. Britain’s decision to break from that is a curious act of self-harm, linked, like the election of Donald Trump, to the desperation of our times.The country’s main political parties, the Conservatives and Labour, buffeted by the Brexit maelstrom, are in crisis — beset by desertions, insurrections and division. As elsewhere in Western democracies shaken by the failings of liberalism, hard-line factions to the left and right have gained sway. They offer rekindled socialism or make-Britain-great-again nationalism as the answer to inequality and ennui.The center looks weak, even if defectors from Labour and the Conservative Parties last month formed an Independent Group to try to resurrect it. Parliamentary democracy, which is what Britain is, and democracy-by-plebiscite, which is what the 2016 vote was, are in a standoff: A sovereign Parliament has rejected May’s proposal while advocates of Brexit, on time and at any cost, bay about the sacred irreversible “will of the people.” Britain today poses the question of what 21st-century democracy is.May and Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour Party leader, have both made desperate concessions in the past week. They did so from weakness. May’s acknowledgment that Brexit could be delayed (the union would have to agree to that and would want to know why) and Corbyn’s support for a second referendum (a grudging move from a lifelong Euroskeptic heading a pro-E.U. party) added to the mayhem.Anything is possible. That’s now official. Britain could approve an amended May deal (essentially a fudge preserving British participation in the single market and customs union for now); crash out of the union like a lemming over a cliff; defer a decision; hold a second vote; or some weird combination.I met with David Renard, the Tory leader of Swindon’s borough council. He’s getting impatient. He says he wants British sovereignty back, rescued from a web of European Union regulations. He thinks Britain should get out, even without a deal. “The British people voted to leave. It would be an affront to democracy if we do not on March 29,” he told me. “Let’s get on with it! A lot of people would see a delay as the liberal elite establishment trying to find a way to stay in the E.U.”As a paid-up member of that establishment, I would see a delay and a second vote (one does not necessarily follow from the other) as an act of very British common sense. By focusing the zeitgeist’s every frustration on Brussels, the “Take Back Control” campaign in 2016 was a brilliant exercise in emotional transference. “Remain” equaled the status quo. To many people, for reasons that had little or nothing to do with the union, that was an unattractive proposition.As a practical matter, however, the decision to leave has been a disaster. “Fantasy Brexit,” was based on lies, like the imminent invasion of 80 million Turks. (Turkey joining the E.U. is about as likely as Saudi Arabia becoming a democracy.) Now Britain has had a three-year crash course in “Reality Brexit.” This has involved slower growth, lower investment and the collapse of the illusory idyll. Some 40 free trade deals were promised to replace free trade arrangements Britain benefits from as a union member. The government has concluded a handful, one of them with the Faroe Islands.Trump is not forever. Brexit is. Britain’s youth oppose it. A decision of this import should be grounded in reality.I sat for a while outside the Debenhams department store in downtown Swindon. The scene was not a happy one: stores for rent, people struggling to get by. Swindon is an hour by train from central London, the purring hub of pro-E.U. sentiment. It might as well be on another planet — and it’s still far better off than many towns in Britain. No wonder, I thought, that a majority here did not want to “remain.” Last month Honda, Swindon’s second-largest employer, announced the closure of its plant, with the loss of 3,500 jobs. There were various factors. They included a free trade agreement Japan has concluded with the European Union (making manufacture in Japan more attractive). Honda did not cite the elephant on its production line: Brexit.Imagine you’re in a board meeting in Tokyo looking at fathomless uncertainty in Britain for the foreseeable future: What would you decide? One angry Honda worker, with 24 years at the Swindon factory, had no doubt about the real culprit for his job loss: “The government’s completely incompetent handling of the whole thing doesn’t help either, does it?” he said in a Channel 4 interview that went viral. “They can’t even decide for themselves what Brexit means. This is idiocy of epic proportions.”Idiocy aside, it’s not easy to execute a decision based on mass delusion. As Robert Smith, a Swindon-based marketing director for a law firm, told me: “The gig economy is not Europe’s fault.” Nor is the large flux of migrants across the world, billionaire-favoring taxes and stagnant wages.“The European Union is our national scapegoat,” Sam Gyimah, a Tory M.P. who quit May’s government last November, told me. As minister for Universities, Science, Research and Innovation, Gyimah labored hard to make Brexit work. The more he labored, the less it seemed to make sense. “We get 1.5 pounds from the E.U. for every pound we put in,” he told me. “The University of Cambridge gets more than all of Romania.” Britain had invested heavily in Galileo, a global navigation satellite system created by the European Union. Now it has been shut out.When May produced her “deal” — in fact a proposal to defer for at least two years all the difficult decisions — Gyimah quit. “Look,” he told me. “There’s no majority for any option in Parliament. Therefore this has to go back to the people.”The people are restive. Renard told me the Swindon council is “making plans for civil unrest as a precaution,” should Brexit be delayed.Liberalism worked well for a while. It was good at freeing people from bigotry, sexism, racism, nationalism and prejudice. It was less good at providing people with meaning to their lives, beyond hedonism and materialism. In 2008, with the financial crisis, the wheels came off. Those responsible walked away. A lot of people felt empty, and were drowning in debt. What had the elite ever done for them? Bigotry and nationalism made a storming comeback. That’s Brexit in a nutshell.The reality, however, is that Brexit only compounds the problems. Will Dry, a student, voted for Brexit in 2016. He was 18 then. All his family told him Europe meant unemployment and refugees.Now Dry has taken time off from Oxford University and works to fight Brexit in London. He came, he told me, to “the realization we did not have a plan.” His new view is that “it’s far better to cooperate with neighbors and allies than ditch them.”With Lara Spirit, another student on leave from college, Dry is a co-president of O.F.O.C. (Our Future Our Choice — don’t try to pronounce the acronym), a youth movement that has sent a blue bus around Britain emblazoned with the words “Please stand up for our futures. Signed, young people.” The bus is a rebuke to the Brexiteers’ notorious red bus that, in 2016, spread the lie that more than $462 million a week going to the E.U. would be spent post-Brexit on the National Health Service. “I’m confident there will be a second vote,” Spirit told me.Polls suggest Britain would now vote to stay in the European Union, perhaps by a 54-46 percent margin. Hugo Dixon, the deputy chairman of a grass-roots movement for a second referendum, suggested this slogan: “Fix it. Not Brexit.”That’s good. Liberal democracy has failed too many of its citizens. Brexit and Trump prove that. The elites of these societies have to acknowledge their arrogant inattention. The answer is to fix problems — in education, the health service, taxation and uncontrolled immigration, to name a few.To return to Churchill, he declared in 1936 at another moment of British wavering: “So they go in strange paradox, decided only to be undecided, resolved to be irresolute, adamant for drift, solid for fluidity, all powerful to be impotent.” Three years into its agonizing Brexit odyssey, Britain is finally realizing that scapegoating Brussels has gotten it nowhere. It's going to have to fix its national problems — and the European Union could help.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byObama was a lightning rod. Trump is a lightning strike.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.In 1992, before Bill Clinton became “our first black president,” before Newt Gingrich’s “Republican revolution,” before the advent of Barack Obama, I wrote a book about how race had come to dominate American politics.I argued that the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964set in motion a realignment of the two parties. As whites began to feel the costs of the civil rights revolution — affirmative action, busing, urban violence — Republicans recognized the potential of race to catalytically interact with the broader rights revolution and the anti-tax movement to drive working and middle class voters out of the Democratic Party.I also wrote about the political power of racial resentment:Race gave new strength to themes that in the past had been secondary — themes always present in American politics, but which previously lacked, in themselves, mobilizing power. Race was central, Richard Nixon and key Republican strategists began to recognize, to the fundamental conservative strategy of establishing a new, noneconomic polarization of the electorate, a polarization isolating a liberal, activist, culturally permissive, rights-oriented and pro-black Democratic Party against those unwilling to pay the financial and social costs of this reconfigured social order.The situation hasn’t changed much.Heading into the 2020 election, President Trump is prepared for the second time in a row to run a racist campaign. He continues, for example, to denigrate, in virulent terms, immigrants from Mexico and Central America.At the same time, Democrats are doubling down on a racially liberal political agenda, becoming more outspoken and more confrontational in their defense of diversity and multiculturalism. Two of the party’s top-tier candidates for president — Senator Cory Booker and Senator Kamala Harris — are African-American, one — Julián Castro — is Latino, and all of the current Democratic contenders unabashedly promote the rights of racial and ethnic minorities. The continuing Democratic quandary is how to maximize essential minority turnout, and at the same time retain — or recruit — sufficient numbers of white working class voters to secure victory on Election Day.My Times colleagues Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns reported on Feb. 25 that Democratic operatives are debating whether the party should spend “time, money and psychic energy tailoring their message to a heavily white, rural and blue-collar part of the country” or focus instead on areas where “their coalition is increasingly made up of racial minorities and suburbanites.”The dispute, according to Martin and Burns,is not merely a tactical one — it goes to the heart of how Democrats envision themselves becoming a majority party. The question is whether that is accomplished through a focus on kitchen-table topics like health care and jobs, aimed at winning moderates and disaffected Trump voters, or by unapologetically elevating matters of race and identity, such as immigration, to mobilize young people and minorities with new fervor.Poll data suggests that Trump is driving Democratic liberals further left and conservative Republicans further right on a key test of racial attitudes.Michael Tesler, a political scientist at the University of California-Irvine and the author of the 2016 book “Post Racial or Most Racial,” writes in “Racial Attitudes and American Politics,” a chapter in a forthcoming book:Democratic and Republican voters do not simply disagree about what the government should do on racially charged issues like immigration and affirmative action, they now inhabit increasingly separate realities about race in America.The growing alignment between racial attitudes and public opinion, Tesler continues, “has polarized the electorate and helped make American politics increasingly vitriolic.”Racial attitudes have, in turn, become indelibly linked to partisan identification and “party identification influences just about everything in contemporary American society,” Tesler writes:Partisanship is not only the most important determinant of our vote choices and policy preferences, but it shapes countless other beliefs and behaviors. Party identification has even been linked to who we find attractive and who we decide to marry, how we perceive objective conditions like the unemployment rate and federal budget deficit, which neighborhoods we want to live in, and the type of TV shows and cars we like.Because of this, Tesler argues, “the racialization of party identification is by itself the racialization of American politics and society.”Ryan Enos, a Harvard political scientist notes thatThe pull of racial attitudes seems to be moving both directions — so that racial conservatives are being drawn into the GOP and racial liberals are being drawn into the Democratic Party.Political ideology, Enos continued in an email,is a broad orientation that is influenced by basic psychological traits and these traits orient a person toward a particular worldview that can be ideologically conservative or liberal and also causes one to be more or less ethnocentric.The growing linkage between ideological and ethnocentric views has, in turn, contributed to a striking development in congressional elections.Stephen M. Utych, a political scientist at Boise State University, conducted a detailed analysis — “Man Bites Blue Dog: Are Moderates Really More Electable than Ideologues?” — of winners and losers in House races from 1980 to 2012.Utych found that a core premise of both political operatives and political scientists — that “moderate candidates should be more electable in a general election than ideologically extreme candidates” — is no longer true.In fact, in 2012, ideologically extreme candidates became more electable than moderates, as the accompanying graphic shows.Moderate candidates for U.S. House seats used to have a big edge over those who were much more ideological (either toward the left or the right). In 2012, the ideologues were more successful, and moderates’ odds of winning fell to about 50-50.CANDIDATESWONModerate candidatesEVENCHANCE OFWINNINGStrongly ideological candidatesModerateslost their edgein 2012 (the latestdata available)CANDIDATESLOST’80’84’88’92’96’00’04’08’12CANDIDATES WONModerate candidatesEVEN CHANCE OF WINNINGModerateslost their edgein 2012 (the latestdata available)Strongly ideological candidatesCANDIDATES LOST’80’84’88’92’96’00’04’08’12By The New York Times | Source: analysis of Database on Ideology, Money in Politics and Elections (Adam Bonica, Stanford University) by Stephen Utych, Boise State UniversityIn 1980, at the start of the period Utych studied,moderates were quite likely to win — very extreme candidates were less than 20 percent likely to win election in 1980, while ideologically moderate candidates were nearly 80 percent likely to win.By 2008, however, Ultych observes,ideologically extreme candidates and moderates became indistinguishable in their likelihood of winning an election, with predicted probabilities of winning hovering around 50 percent for both.In an email, Utych pointed out that racial views are extremely significant in the trends he describes:The importance of racial attitudes, and how intertwined with politics they’ve become, can go a long way to explaining polarization.Tesler and many other academics use a set of polling questions to determine the intensity of what they call “racial resentment.” Whites who score high in racial resentment have consistently voted in higher percentages for Republican presidential candidates.“From 1988 to 2012 average white resentment scores were very stable, but in 2016 something quite notable happened,” Tesler explained by email. Referring to data from American National Election Studies, Tesler pointed out that White resentment was significantly lower in 2016 than had ever been recorded in the ANES. It’s not just the ANES or resentment, either. Across several surveys and attitudes, the country has grown significantly more liberal on several questions related to race, immigration, Islam and gender since Trump’s campaign.The shift to the left was not, however, across the board. It was driven by one group: Democrats and voters who lean toward the Democratic Party.“This growing tolerance is largely confined to Democrats and Democratic leaning Independents,” Tesler wrote, adding thatDemocrats have grown more tolerant as a backlash against Trumpism. It also means that while the country is growing more tolerant, they’re also more polarized over race and ethnicity.The accompanying graphic, based on data provided by Tesler, demonstrates the growing partisan division over race, in this case showing levels of agreement with the statement “racial discrimination is the main reason why many black people can’t get ahead these days.”From 2008 through 2016, very few Republicans agree, and their disagreement remains constant. Democratic agreement, in contrast, shot up, from just over a quarter to well over half.A Pew survey found that a majority of Democrats, after the election of President Trump, agreed with this statement: “Racial discrimination is the main reason why many black people can’t get ahead these days.” Republican views scarcely budged.75% AGREE66%Trump announcescandidacy in June 20154450%Democrats2825%Republicans1112%8Nov.2009Mar.’11Jan.’12Mar.’14Aug.’15Feb.’17July’1775% AGREE66%Trump announces candidacyin June 20154450%Democrats2825%Republicans1112%8Nov.2009Mar.’11Jan.’12Mar.’14Aug.’15Feb.’17July’17By The New York Times | Sources: Pew Research Center; “Identity Crisis: The 2016 Presidential Campaign and the Battle for the Meaning of America Hardcover,” by John Sides, Michael Tesler and Lynn VavreckTesler argues that racially resentful voters turned against Obama in higher percentages than in past elections when the Democratic nominee was white, but Obama made up for his losses with higher turnout and stronger margins of victory among blacks and white liberals. Tesler calls this phenomenon “two sides of racialization”:Obama performed particularly poorly among racially resentful whites, but garnered more votes from African Americans and white racial liberals than a similarly situated white Democratic candidate.Instead of costing him votes, Tesler continued, thelarge effects of racial attitudes in Obama’s election, therefore, did not so much hurt him electorally as they polarized voter preferences based on their feelings about African-Americans.In 2016, even though both presidential candidates were white, race played an even larger role than it did in the two Obama elections.That year, Tesler wrote,the American public saw a much wider gulf between Clinton and Trump’s positions on issues like immigration and federal aid to African Americans than they had perceived between prior Democratic and Republican presidential candidates.That, in turn, set the stage forattitudes about race and ethnicity to matter more in 2016 than they had in modern times. Across several different racial attitude measures in a number of different surveys, views about race and ethnicity were more strongly related to vote choice in 2016 than they were in Obama’s elections.On Feb. 19, Gallup reported that the liberal faction of the Democratic Party is growing:Increased liberal identification has been particularly pronounced among non-Hispanic white Democrats, rising 20 percentage points from an average 34 percent in the early 2000s to 54 percent in the latest period. By contrast, Gallup trends show a nine-point rise in the percent liberal among Hispanic Democrats, from 29 percent to 38 percent, and an eight-point increase among black Democrats, from 25 percent to 33 percent.Lydia Saad, a senior editor at Gallup, provided additional survey data showing a marked leftward trend among white Democrats during and after the election of President Trump. The percentage of white Democrats who describe themselves as “socially liberal” grew from 39 percent in 2001 to 2006 to 50 percent in 2007 to 2012 and to 63 percent in 2013 to 2018, according to Gallup. This 24-point increase outpaced black Democrats, who went from 33 to 41 percent, and Hispanic Democrats who went from 28 to 36 percent. (Of course, the percentage of white voters who identify as Democrats is much lower than it is for African-America or Hispanic voters.)The Gallup data showed similar leftward shifts among white Democrats on taxing the rich, abortion, gay rights and a wide range of other issues.Not only has the Trump presidency pushed Democrats in a progressive direction, Trump himself has played a crucial role in maintaining Democratic unity, according to Gallup:The Democrats’ grand unifier stands outside the party. Despite differing ideologies and opposing views on some issues, on average last year, 82 percent of conservative Democrats, 91 percent of moderate Democrats and 96 percent of liberal Democrats disapproved of the job President Donald Trump was doing as president.As they prepare for the general election, Democrats battling for the nomination (and their strategists) will struggle to understand how and where their increasingly strong commitment to racial and cultural liberalism conflicts with the views of the general electorate.This week, for example, the Pew Research Center released a study showing that 73 percent of Americans oppose racial and ethnic affirmative action policies in college admissions. Pew reported that 7 percent of those surveyed said race should be a major factor, while 19 percent said it should be a minor factor.Similarly, Democratic strategists will be evaluating the issue of reparations, which three major candidates — Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Julián Castro — have endorsed so far, in various forms.In 2015, CNN and the Kaiser Family Foundation polled Americans’ view of reparations and found that while African Americans were in favor (52-42), Hispanics (at 57-37), and whites (89-8), were firmly against.In “The Distorting Effects of Racial Animus on Proximity Voting in the 2016 Elections,” Carlos Algara and Isaac Hale, political scientists at the University of California at Davis, show how powerful race has become in mobilizing support for Republicans: “Not only did Trump’s frequent invocations of race in the 2016 campaign prime voters with high levels of racial animus to evaluate the presidential contest in racial terms,” they write, but the increased salience of race in the 2016 campaign “percolated to relatively low-information congressional contests as well.”The result, Algara and Hale show, is that voters liberal on issues other than race defect “to Republican candidates up and down the ticket when they harbor racial animus.” Racial animosity, they write, hurts both black and white Democratic candidates: “Racial animus (at least when salient) harms Democratic candidates across the board.”I began this column with a pair of quotes from my 1992 book, “Chain Reaction.” Here is another pair:As the civil rights movement became national, as it became clearly associated with the Democratic Party, and as it began to impinge on local neighborhoods and schools, it served to crack the Democratic loyalties of key white voters. Crucial numbers of voters — in the white, urban and suburban neighborhoods of the North, and across the South — were, in addition, deeply angered and distressed by aspects of the rights revolution. It had been among the white working and lower-middle classes that many of the social changes stemming from the introduction of new rights — civil rights for minorities, reproductive and workplace rights for women, constitutional protections for the criminally accused, immigration opportunities for those from developing countries, free-speech rights to pornographers, and the surfacing of highly visible homosexual communities — have been most deeply resisted.And from the book’s conclusion:At stake is the American experiment itself, endangered by a rising tide of political cynicism and alienation, and basic uncertainties as to whether or not we are capable of transmitting a sense of inclusion and shared citizenship across an immense and diverse population — whether or not we can uphold our traditional commitment to the possibilities of justice and equality expressed in our founding documents and embedded in our most valued democratic institutions.The question stands out even more starkly now than it did 27 years ago, with a president we could not then have imagined, who is willing, even eager, to play with fire.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — House Democrats issued subpoenas late Tuesday to three cabinet officials, in a sharp escalation of their battle over the administration’s policy of separating migrant families at the southern border.Administration officials did not immediately say if the cabinet officials — the homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen; the attorney general, William P. Barr; and the health and human services secretary, Alex M. Azar II — would comply. But Ms. Nielsen has previously refused to appear before the House Homeland Security committee to answer similar inquiries, and the Justice Department suggested Mr. Barr would not turn over documents requested by the committee.Earlier in the day, the House Oversight and Reform Committee easily passed a measure authorizing the subpoenas that called for the officials to turn over documents pertaining to the detention policies, as two Republicans — Representative Justin Amash of Michigan and Representative Chip Roy of Texas — voted with Democrats to authorize the subpoenas. Moments later, the House Judiciary Committee held its first hearing on a child separation policy that the panel’s Democratic chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, described as “indefensible,” “inhumane” and “immoral” in his opening statement.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]Mr. Nadler and other Democrats complained about the pace and quality of the data administration officials had provided them before the hearings. On Monday night, administration officials sent a trove of data that committee Democrats had requested months earlier, including a report documenting hundreds of allegations of sexual abuse reported by minors at detention facilities over the past several years.More than 2,700 children were separated from their parents at the border under President Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy of prosecuting anyone caught crossing the border illegally, even those with families seeking asylum on humanitarian grounds.The subpoenas are part of a larger effort, led by Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the chairman of the oversight panel, and other Democratic committee chairmen to compel public testimony on a range of issues from officials with the Departments of Homeland Security, Justice and Health and Human Services.While the subpoenas do not initially call for the secretaries to testify, congressional aides said they had not ruled out that possibility.Caitlin B. Oakley, a spokeswoman for Mr. Azar, would not say if he intended to comply. The Health and Human Services Department “understands and appreciates the important role of congressional oversight,” she said in a statement.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for Mr. Barr, suggested the committee should receive the documents from the other two departments. “The documents requested by the House Oversight Committee should be obtained from the originating agencies — here, H.H.S. and D.H.S,” she said, referring to the Departments of Health and Human Services and Homeland Security. “The Department of Justice is currently representing H.H.S. and D.H.S. in litigation and the information requested was obtained in the course of that representation.”Aides to Ms. Nielsen did not immediately return requests for comment.Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, the committee’s top Republican, asked Mr. Cummings in a letter this week to reconsider the wide issuance of subpoenas.The Trump policy of prosecuting all adults crossing the border led to the practice of separating families and caring for the children in licensed facilities while trying to place them with a relative, because a previous court settlement had restricted the detention of children. The Department of Homeland Security struggled to track families and their children after the policy was put in place last spring — and did not create a comprehensive family reunification policy until a federal judge intervened.Mr. Trump eventually relented on the family separations, and a federal judge in California halted them in June. But in January, the inspector general of the Department of Health and Human Services reported that thousands more families might have been separated than previously reported.Democrats, whose questions were largely ignored by the administration before they took control of the House in January, leveled their sharpest questions on Tuesday at Scott Lloyd, who until recently oversaw the Department of Health and Human Services’ refugee resettlement program, which oversees the carrying out of the policy.Mr. Lloyd spoke so softly that committee members craned over the rostrum to hear his answers. He struggled to explain why his agency initially failed to track migrant families separated as part of the policy.When Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, Democrat of Texas, asked about a report that Mr. Lloyd had instructed department staff members to stop maintaining a database used to track separated children and families, Mr. Lloyd responded by saying the report was “incorrect,” but offered no further explanation.In prepared remarks, Mr. Lloyd, an anti-abortion activist who had no prior experience administering refugee programs before being placed in his former post, laid some of the blame on the Homeland Security Department, saying that “D.H.S. had not consistently adhered” to “processes” used to identify and track migrant families.Sitting next to Mr. Lloyd at the witness table was Cmdr. Jonathan White of the United States Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, a career federal official who repeatedly warned him last year that the family separation policy could cause permanent trauma to young children.Commander White said that he raised his opposition to the policy “in every conversation we had about family separation” and that he “raised those concerns” with Mr. Lloyd’s staff and other top officials at the Department of Health and Human Services last summer, when detention facilities were overwhelmed by families detained at the border.Research showed that the policy “had very significant and lifelong psychological impacts” on the children who were detained, he added.In an extraordinary exchange, Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington, asked Mr. Lloyd if he had heeded Commander White’s warnings by intensifying efforts to create a comprehensive plan for tracking and reuniting families.“I did not direct anybody to not plan,” Mr. Lloyd responded.When Ms. Jayapal asked him if he informed “anyone above you” that the detention policy could harm children, Mr. Lloyd replied, “I did not.”In another heated exchange, Commander White bristled when Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida, sharply questioned him about new data, provided by the Department of Health and Human Services to the committee late Monday, that documented thousands of allegations of sexual abuse at detention facilities overseen by the department.The report, compiled by the Justice Department, showed that there were 1,226 allegations of sexual abuse made to the Office of Refugee Resettlement at the Department of Health and Human Services in 2018, which was largely in keeping with the number of reports filed in the previous three years; 348 of them were deemed serious enough to warrant a Justice Department investigation. Fifty-six involved staff members at detention centers.“That is false!” Commander White shouted, as Mr. Deutch read the numbers.Later, he apologized for his outburst and said that the “vast majority of allegations proved to be unfounded” and that he was not aware of any accusations against staff members that were found to have merit.Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTrying to get this debate beyond Calvinball.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistWith everything else going on, I really don’t want to spend time arguing with the Modern Monetary Theory people; after all, we agree on basic policy issues right now, and they are never likely to have as much destructive influence as the deficit scolds. But the MMT people think they have an argument with conventional Keynesians like me, and as long as they’re out there claiming that standard macroeconomics is all wrong, I guess we need to respond.Now, arguing with the MMTers generally feels like playing Calvinball, with the rules constantly changing: every time you think you’ve pinned them down on some proposition, they insist that you haven’t grasped their meaning. So I was glad to see Stephanie Kelton responding to my attempt to clarify my problems with the doctrine in a way that seems to make at least some key differences in view clear.The problem is that I don’t understand her arguments at all. If she’s saying what I think she’s saying, it seems just obviously indefensible. If I try to explain that, will I be told again that I just don’t get it? Are we still playing Calvinball after all?Well anyway, let me describe a bit more analytically one of my key problems with MMT, and what I understand to be Kelton’s response.A key proposition of Abba Lerner’s doctrine of “functional finance,” which is in turn a large part of the MMT doctrine, is that the appropriate size of the budget deficit can be determined by how big it needs to be to ensure full employment. What I argued was that while this is true when monetary policy is constrained by the zero lower bound, it isn’t true when the central bank has room to move interest rates.Figure 1 illustrates my point. Suppose that the Fed or its equivalent in another country can set interest rates, and that a lower interest rate leads, other things equal, to higher aggregate demand. Then at any given point in time there is a downward-sloping relationship between the interest rate and GDP, as shown by the lines IS1, IS2, IS3.Suppose that the current aggregate demand schedule is IS3. Then the central bank can set the interest rate so as to achieve full employment, getting the economy to point C.Now suppose that the government were to cut spending, shifting the aggregate demand schedule down to IS2. Need this create unemployment? No: the central bank can still get us there by cutting interest rates, getting the economy to point B.So we’ve just refuted the claim that the required size of the budget deficit can be determined by the need to achieve full employment; as long as monetary policy is available, there is a range of possible deficits consistent with that goal. The question then becomes one of tradeoffs: would the things the government could buy with a higher deficit be worth the lost private investment due to a higher interest rate? Often the answer will be yes. But there is a tradeoff.Now, this breaks down when the interest rate required to achieve full employment goes negative. If fiscal policy is contractionary enough that it pushes the aggregate demand schedule down to IS1, we end up at point A, well short of full employment. And this case has been all too relevant over the past decade! But it’s not always the way things work.OK, so this seems clear to me, and hard to argue with. But Kelton does argue with it, or at least I think she does.First, she suggests that the neutral or natural interest rate – which is defined as the interest rate consistent with full employment given everything else – does not exist. What does she mean by that? I think she means that it’s hard to determine, or maybe that it’s unstable, which are defensible claims. But the analysis I’ve just given doesn’t depend on the natural rate being either easily estimated or stable over time. In fact, I never mentioned the natural rate in the previous post. All we need is that the central bank be able to move rates, and that these rates affect overall spending.So what purpose does claiming that the natural rate is a meaningless concept serve? It looks to me like sophistry – word games intended to confuse what should be a simple issue. Maybe that’s uncharitable, but I truly don’t see the point otherwise.Second, and more important, Kelton seems to claim that expansionary fiscal policy – in Figure 1, policy that pushes the IS curve out from IS2 to IS3 – will lead to lower, not higher interest rates. Why?It seems as if she’s saying that deficits necessarily lead to an increase in the monetary base, that expansionary fiscal policy is automatically expansionary monetary policy. But that is so obviously untrue – think of the loose fiscal/tight money combination in the 1980s – that I hope she means something different. Yet I can’t figure out what that different thing might be.Now, the fiscal-monetary tradeoff isn’t the only place where I have problems with MMT. But it’s a place where Kelton has laid down a very clear marker, saying something that I think I understand – and which also seems to be quite wrong.So let’s be clear here: Are MMTers claiming, as Kelton seems to, that there is only one deficit level consistent with full employment, that there is no ability to substitute monetary for fiscal policy? Are they claiming that expansionary fiscal policy actually reduces interest rates? Yes or no answers, please, with explanations of how you got these answers and why the straightforward framework I laid out above is wrong. No more Calvinball.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie AstorYou may have heard about the Overton window, and that’s not about to stop. With the political landscape shifting in sometimes startling ways, what was once an obscure idea has gained broader relevance.But while the term has been bandied about lately, it hasn’t always been by people who know what they’re talking about. And it’s important to get this right. You’ve probably noticed that policies once dismissed out of hand — from “Medicare for all” to a 70 percent top tax rate; from sweeping action on climate change to abolishing Immigration and Customs Enforcement — are being discussed in mainstream circles now. The Overton window is a useful way to understand what’s happening.Joseph P. Overton introduced the concept in the 1990s as an executive at the Mackinac Center for Public Policy, a conservative think tank in Michigan. He never expected it to gain widespread recognition, said Joseph G. Lehman, president of the Mackinac Center, and it didn’t until after Mr. Overton died in 2003.Mr. Overton just wanted to explain to potential donors what the point of a think tank was, so he created a brochure with a cardboard slider. The brochure listed the range of possible policies on a single issue, from least to most government intervention. On education — an example the Mackinac Center uses — it might run from zero public investment in education to compulsory indoctrination in government schools. But neither of those extremes is going to happen. Only part of the range is achievable, and when Mr. Overton moved his slider, different policies fell into what he called the window of political possibility.“Public officials cannot enact any policy they please like they’re ordering dessert from a menu,” Mr. Lehman said in an interview. “They have to choose from among policies that are politically acceptable at the time. And we believe the Overton window defines that range of ideas.”Grass-roots mobilization can shift the window. So can think tanks, which was Mr. Overton’s point. But despite a misconception driven by Glenn Beck’s novel “The Overton Window,” the window is a description, not a tactic: Shifting it doesn’t mean proposing extreme ideas to make somewhat less extreme ideas seem reasonable.“It just explains how ideas come in and out of fashion, the same way that gravity explains why something falls to the earth,” Mr. Lehman said. “I can use gravity to drop an anvil on your head, but that would be wrong. I could also use gravity to throw you a life preserver; that would be good.”The key is that shifts begin with the public. Mr. Overton argued that the role of organizations like his own was not to lobby politicians to support policies outside the window, but to convince voters that policies outside the window should be in it. If they are successful, an idea derided as unthinkable can become so inevitable that it’s hard to believe it was ever otherwise.The current shift toward progressive economic policies is clear and quantifiable. Take some of the legislation introduced by Senator Bernie Sanders, whose 2016 presidential campaign helped popularize these ideas. In 2015, his bills to make public colleges free and expand Social Security had no co-sponsors in the Senate. Two years later, they had seven and 17, respectively, in addition to 50 and 133 co-sponsors in the House. His signature measure, the Medicare for All Act, had no Senate co-sponsors in 2013 (he didn’t introduce it in 2015), but four years later it had 16, along with 125 in the House.“We have come a very, very long way in the American people now demanding legislation and concepts that just a few years ago were thought to be very radical,” Mr. Sanders said in a recent interview.His support for these policies set him apart in the 2016 Democratic field, but they are mainstream positions among the 2020 candidates — because, increasingly, they are mainstream positions among the voters those candidates are courting. Mr. Sanders emphasized as much in announcing his second presidential campaign on Tuesday.Most telling, perhaps, is that even opponents are taking the ideas seriously: They might not want Medicare for all, but they believe it could happen and are fighting it accordingly. If a policy is dead on arrival, you don’t have to fight it.That the Overton window is shifting doesn’t necessarily mean policies like Medicare for all will be enacted, and it doesn’t say anything about whether they are good or bad. But it does say something meaningful about the political climate.Part of the story is polarization: Democrats moving left and Republicans right, to an extent “that we haven’t seen previously in a modern political period,” said Mary Layton Atkinson, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte who studies public opinion and issue framing. “Republicans have become just as entrenched in their own conservative policy preferences.”As support for more ambitious policies has increased among Democrats, there has also been “a wave of young party leaders who are less encumbered by a long voting history tying them to more moderate and less progressive policy stances,” Dr. Atkinson said. “And they’re being supported by a base that is ready to hear these messages.”But polarization isn’t the only factor. Polls show that some support crosses the partisan divide. Forty-five percent of Republicans in one poll supported Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s suggestion to tax income over $10 million at 70 percent; among all American adults, 59 percent supported that. Thirty-seven percent of Republicans said they would vote for a candidate who supported a Medicare for all plan; 53 percent of all Americans said the same.Leaders like Mr. Sanders and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez argue that voters are rejecting longstanding economic assumptions because those assumptions haven’t yielded the promised results. “I think the line of trickle-down economics improving the lives of everybody doesn’t work when in the last 30 or 40 years, the lives of the middle class have become significantly more difficult at the same time as we’ve seen massive income and wealth inequality,” Mr. Sanders said.That sentiment is far from universal, and many Americans still support “trickle-down” policies. Conservatives and some moderates — including possible presidential candidates like Michael Bloomberg — view proposals like “Medicare for all” or a wealth tax as extreme, and it is not clear how those proposals would play in a presidential general election.But since Mr. Sanders and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who is also running for president, began speaking on national stages about ideas once confined to small circles, criticism of those ideas has ceased to dominate the political conversation, and voters are seeing practicality in ideas long considered idealistic. (Ms. Warren’s campaign did not make her available for an interview.)“I think people like Warren and Sanders deserve a lot of credit for advancing these ideas before they were cool,” said Tom Perriello, executive director for U.S. programs at the Open Society Foundations, who co-wrote an article last year about the increasing popularity of once-unthinkable policies. “It created a conversation people hadn’t heard before, and then had the option to look at it and say, ‘Wait, that sounds like a much better idea than what I’ve been hearing before.’”Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagThe federal government received more than 4,500 complaints in four years about the sexual abuse of immigrant children who were being held at government-funded detention facilities, including an increase in complaints while the Trump administration’s policy of separating migrant families at the border was in place, the Justice Department revealed this week.The records, which involve children who had entered the country alone or had been separated from their parents, detailed allegations that adult staff members had harassed and assaulted children, including fondling and kissing minors, watching them as they showered, and raping them. They also included cases of suspected abuse of children by other minors.From October 2014 to July 2018, the Office of Refugee Resettlement, a part of the Health and Human Services Department that cares for so-called unaccompanied minors, received a total of 4,556 allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment, 1,303 of which were referred to the Justice Department. Of those 1,303 cases deemed the most serious, 178 were accusations that adult staff members had sexually assaulted immigrant children, while the rest were allegations of minors assaulting other minors, the report said.“The safety of minors is our top concern when administering the UAC program,” Jonathan H. Hayes, the acting director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, said in a statement, using an abbreviation for unaccompanied children. “None of the allegations involved O.R.R. federal staff. These allegations were all fully investigated and remedial action was taken where appropriate.”[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The records do not detail the outcome of every complaint, but they indicate that some accusations were determined to be unfounded or lacking enough evidence to prosecute. In one case, a staff member at a Chicago detention facility was accused in April 2015 of fondling and kissing a child and was later charged with a crime. The report did not state whether that person had been found guilty.The documents, first reported by Axios, were made public by Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida, the night before a House Judiciary Committee hearing on Tuesday about the Trump administration’s policy of family separations at the southern border. That policy, which was put in place last spring, resulted in more than 2,700 children being separated from their parents under President Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy of prosecuting anyone caught crossing the border illegally, including those with families seeking asylum on humanitarian grounds.For most of the four years covered by the report, the number of allegations made to the Office of Refugee Resettlement stayed about the same from month to month. But the number of complaints rose after the Trump administration enacted its separation policy. From March 2018 to July 2018, the agency received 859 complaints, the largest number of reports during any five-month span in the previous four years. Of those, 342 allegations were referred to the Justice Department, the report showed.During the hearing on Tuesday, a discussion of the records sparked a heated exchange between Mr. Deutch and Cmdr. Jonathan White of the United States Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, who last year repeatedly warned a top official in Health and Human Services that the family separation policy could permanently traumatize young children.As Mr. Deutch read some of the report, Commander White interjected, “That is false!”He later apologized, claiming that a “vast majority of allegations proved to be unfounded.” He said he was unaware of any accusations against staff members that were found to have merit.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders discuss an ambitious 10-year plan to combat climate change introduced by Senator Ed Markey and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.To the Editor:Re “What’s Green? What’s the Deal?” (editorial, Feb. 24):Your excellent editorial lays out the contrast between the promise of a well-crafted Green New Deal and the folly of doing nothing to address the central environmental challenge of our time.From President Trump and Mitch McConnell on down, Republican leaders are running out of places to hide from their abject failure to protect our people from the rising costs and mounting dangers of climate change.First, they said it was all a hoax. As the seas kept rising, the storms kept raging and the wildfires burned out of control, they threw up their hands and whined, “We’re not scientists.” Now they’ve got a new talking point: Trying to fight climate change, they say, is socialism. Socialism!Nonsense. Pooling the best of American innovation and ideas to confront growing problems and gathering threats plays to our strengths as a democracy, as we’ve proved time and again through successful initiatives from Social Security to Medicare.Some Republicans seem hellbent on putting polluter profits first, even when it means putting the rest of us at risk. It’s time to stand up and say we’ve had enough. It’s time for assertive and comprehensive action to protect our children from climate catastrophe — while we’ve still got time.Rhea SuhNew YorkThe writer is president of the Natural Resources Defense Council.To the Editor:The Green New Deal should be concerning to anyone who actually cares about climate change and supports a serious and urgent solution to the problem. This resolution uses climate change as leverage to push a clear and divisive social welfare agenda. The result is an overly expensive and incomplete solution to the climate crisis. Your editorial acknowledges these possibilities but hangs its hat on the premise that any climate change proposal is good for the cause. Let’s stick to celebrating climate change resolutions that at least make an effort at unifying the country around ambitious but workable solutions.Jon NevittScarsdale, N.Y. To the Editor:As young people, we are often told to calm down, to be patient. We have our whole lives ahead of us to figure things out. But when young people look to the future, we see a dark cloud. We see wildfires ravaging the West. We hear of record flooding and ever more powerful storms in the South. We feel the frigid cold brought to us by changing weather patterns, and we are scared.In my classes, I study the rise in atmospheric carbon dioxide over the last 70 years, which tells us to brace ourselves for climate conditions our species has never seen. That terrifies me. What keeps me optimistic, though, is the fact that people are working to understand how climate change will affect society and the ecosystems we depend on. But that work means nothing if our government does not pay attention to these findings and act.That is why I am writing to voice my support for the Green New Deal. Climate change is a large problem to tackle, but we have to start somewhere, and the Green New Deal does just that. Colleen B. SchmidtNew YorkTo the Editor:Re “Dianne Feinstein Lectures Children Who Want Green New Deal, Portraying It as Untenable” (nytimes.com, Feb. 22):In her meeting with schoolchildren, Senator Dianne Feinstein demonstrated how not to approach the Green New Deal, especially with an audience of enthusiastic, idealistic youngsters whose future is at stake.While I totally agree that the Green New Deal is not viable as currently formulated, I also believe that — especially with regard to climate change — it is a goal to strive toward. But if we are to avoid a tear within the Democratic Party, and a tear between generations, we must embrace both the goal and the obstacles.What Ms. Feinstein should have said was that she will work toward that goal, recognizing both how important it is and how it will be feasible only in more manageable steps.Let us not quash the idealism that is needed to make such major changes. But let us also not forget a quote attributed to Voltaire that “the best is the enemy of the good.”Zvi J. DoronPittsburghThe writer is a retired nuclear engineer and co-author of a book about energy and climate policies.To the Editor:While the children of the Sunrise Movement, who are working to stop climate change, may not understand how the Senate functions, they do correctly understand that if the world keeps functioning under business as usual rules, their lives will be fraught with one climate catastrophe after the next.And it is not just children in states with Democratic senators who know this: Middle and high school students in Kentucky were out in force all week, even camping overnight in front of Mitch McConnell’s Senate office for the chance to make their case. The Green New Deal may be expensive, but what would you pay to save your child’s life? Multiply that by millions.Helena BireckiSan FranciscoTo the Editor:American history is replete with what seemed to be, at the time, overly ambitious public policies: Kennedy’s pronouncement to put a man on the moon. The Eisenhower administration’s Interstate highways. And, of course, Franklin D. Roosevelt’s creation of Social Security.The Green New Deal should be included in the debate over new public policies and receive scrutiny from experts to ensure that the proposals are judged on their merits.Mark M. SpradleyChevy Chase, Md.To the Editor:“To Cut Emissions Faster, U.S. Can Apply These Policies” (news article, Feb. 21) shamefully fails to include animal agriculture, which is the second-leading source of greenhouse gas emissions. Not one of the seven steps to reduce emissions even mentions the problem. The article proposes a step to include electric car incentives, even though emissions from animal agriculture surpass those from the entire transportation sector — cars, trucks, trains, planes and ships combined.We cannot continue to ignore the myriad problems with the meat economy, including its huge effect on carbon emissions.John SanbonmatsuWorcester, Mass.To the Editor:Your editorial supporting the Green New Deal despite some of its unrealistic elements is right on the mark. The problem is that it might now be too late given the speed needed to overcome the extreme warming that has already occurred and the significant damage inflicted by the Trump administration on the Obama administration’s environmental policies.Historians might well focus on the 2016 campaign that resulted in the election of an unqualified climate denier as the death sentence to life on earth as we know it. They might also cast considerable blame on the mainstream media for its entertainment-dominated coverage, which resulted in what you refer to as the “hard to believe” fact that not one question about climate change was asked in the presidential debates.Mr. Trump proudly referred to climate change as a “hoax” despite overwhelming scientific evidence to the contrary. If the debate moderators had repeatedly asked him for evidence to support this claim and the media had given as much time to this issue as to Hillary Clinton’s emails, then perhaps the Obama climate policies would still be intact, some form of the Green New Deal would not appear so unrealistic, and we now might have a fighting chance to save life on earth as we know it.Harold J. SmithWhite PlainsAdvertisementAdvertisement

      By RUSSELL GOLDMAN, 
    
JIN WU, 
    
MOTOKO RICH and 
    
CHOE SANG-HUN

FEB. 28, 2019

As negotiators for the United States and North Korea sat down on Thursday in Hanoi, Vietnam, to discuss denuclearization, the team on Kim Jong-un’s side of the table had one clear advantage — experience.As a group, the Americans joining President Trump had less practice dealing directly with the North Koreans than their counterparts had negotiating with Americans.Mike PompeoSecretary of StateYun Hyang LeeInterpreterMick MulvaneyWhite House Chief of StaffRi Yong-hoForeign MinisterSin Hye-yongInterpreterHe has met at least three times with Kim Jong-un, including negotiating for the release of American detainees.The president’s closest adviser is a former congressman with little foreign policy experience. He began negotiating with the United States in the 1990s, and led North Korea's delegation at the Sx-Party Talks.   Donald TrumpKim Jong-unJohn R. BoltonNational Security AdviserKim Yong-cholVice Party ChairmanA former ambassador to the United Nations and an arms control expert, he joined Mr. Trump at the previous summit in Singapore.A former Korean spymaster, he has visited the White House.Mick MulvaneyWhite House Chief of Staff Ri Yong-hoForeign MinisterYun Hyang LeeInterpreterSin Hye-yongInterpreterMike PompeoSecretary of StateHe has met at least three times with Kim Jong-un, including negotiating for the release of American detainees.The president’s closest adviser is a former congressman with little foreign policy experience. He began negotiating with the United States in the 1990s, and led North Korea's delegation at the six-party talks.  Donald TrumpKim Jong-unJohn R. BoltonNational Security AdviserKim Yong-cholVice Party ChairmanA former ambassador to the United Nations and an arms control expert, he joined Mr. Trump at the previous summit in Singapore.A former Korean spymaster, he has visited the White House.Mike PompeoSecretary of StateYun Hyang LeeInterpreterMick MulvaneyWhite House Chief of Staff Ri Yong-hoForeign Minister Sin Hye-yongInterpreterHe has met at least three times with Kim Jong-un, including negotiating for the release of American detainees.The president’s closest adviser is a former congressman with little foreign policy experience.He began negotiating with the United States in the 1990s, and led North Korea's delegation at the six-party talks. Donald TrumpKim Jong-unJohn R. BoltonNational Security AdviserKim Yong-cholVice Party ChairmanA former ambassador to the United Nationsand an arms control expert, he joined Mr. Trump at the previous summit in Singapore.A former Korean spymaster, he has visited the White House. Mike PompeoSecretary of StateMick MulvaneyWhite House Chief of StaffRi Yong-hoForeign MinisterHe has met at least three times with Kim Jong-un, including negotiating for the release of American detainees.The president’s closest adviser is a former congressman with little foreign policy experience. He began negotiating with the United States in the 1990s, and led North Korea's delegation at the six-party talks.  Yun Hyang LeeInterpreterSin Hye-yongInterpreterKim Jong-unDonald TrumpJohn R. BoltonNational Security AdviserKim Yong-cholVice Party Chairman A former ambassador to the United Nations and an arms control expert, he joined Mr. Trump at the previous summit in Singapore.A former Korean spymaster, he has visited the White House.Ri Yong-hoForeign MinisterMike PompeoSecretary of StateMick MulvaneyWhite House Chief of StaffHe has met at least three times with Kim Jong-un.A former congressman with little foreign policy experience. He led North Korea’s delegation at the Six-Party Talks. Yun Hyang LeeInterpreterSin Hye-yongInterpreterDonald TrumpKim Jong-unJohn R. BoltonNational Security AdviserKim Yong-cholVice Party ChairmanHe joined Mr. Trump at the previous summit in Singapore.A former Korean spymaster, he has visited the White House.Mike PompeoSecretary of StateMick MulvaneyWhite House Chief of StaffRi Yong-hoForeign MinisterHe has met at least three times with Kim Jong-un.A former congressman with little foreign policy experience. He led North Korea’s delegation at the Six-Party Talks.InterpreterInterpreterKimJong-unDonaldTrumpJohn R. BoltonNational Security AdvisorKim Yong-cholVice Party ChairmanHe joined Mr. Trump at the previous summit in Singapore.A former Korean spymaster, he has visited the White House.Mike Pompeo | Secretary of StateHe has met at least three times with Kim Jong-un.Mick Mulvaney | White House Chief of StaffFormer congressman with little foreign policyexperience.Ri Yong-ho | Foreign MinisterHe led North Korea’s delegation at the Six-Party Talks.InterpreterInterpreterKimJong-unDonaldTrumpJohn R. BoltonNational Security AdviserKim Yong-cholVice Party ChairmanHe joined Mr. Trump at the previous summit in Singapore.A former Korean spymaster, he has visited the White House. Several members of the North Korean delegation were veterans of the Six-Party Talks, a series of meetings held in the 2000s intended to halt the country’s nascent weapons program, and have dealt with the Americans for decades. Many of those joining Kim Jong-un were at his side at the previous summit meeting in Singapore, and were selected for their experience and avowed loyalty.Many of the State Department’s most experienced North Korea experts recently retired from government. Mr. Trump’s team had to quickly get up to speed, dealing first with a series of weapons tests and then with a newly engaged North. The president sees himself as a master negotiator, experts said, and often relies on his instincts rather than his advisers.Photo: Doug Mills / The New York TimesBecause of an editing error, an earlier version of this story misidentified a member of the North Korean delegation. He is Kim Yong-chol, vice party chairman, and not Kim Hyok-chol, special envoy.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byParis and Berlin can’t agree on how to lead Europe forward. By Anna SauerbreyContributing Opinion WriterBERLIN — Times are rough for the European Union. The news coming from Britain grows more depressing every day. Italy is governed by a maverick government searching for an open confrontation with France. Hungary and Poland are slowly slipping into authoritarianism. And we are headed for a European election in May that could result in further gains by populist parties.It is tempting, then, to see a ray of hope in an agreement by Germany and France, announced on Friday, for a eurozone budget, which the two countries will present to their fellow member states. Maybe, after years of delay, Paris and Berlin are finally taking the initiative to reverse Europe’s seemingly unstoppable, slow-motion disintegration.Not so fast. This latest deal aside, France and Germany, both founding powers of the European Union and its most powerful members, have been growing increasingly at odds. The discord is driven in part by differences over concrete policy proposals. But the bigger, intractable problem is a fundamental difference in their visions for Europe. This being Europe, the two countries have done their best to paper over their differences with rhetorical displays of unity. In November, French president Emmanuel Macron stood on the floor of the German Bundestag to deliver a speech marking the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I. Not holding back, he described the Franco-German relationship as one of “love” — a love born of the many catastrophes of the 20th century. On Jan. 22, the two countries even renewed their vows, so to speak, by signing an update to the 1963 Elysée Treaty, which announced a new era of comity between the two former enemies.At these occasions, Germany seemed happy to adopt the French line on Europe, which President Macron laid out in a speech at the Sorbonne University in September 2017: the idea of a deepened, “sovereign Europe” with a strong common foreign and defense policy, a “Europe that protects” its citizens. Mr. Macron believes, and Germany seems to agree, that the atrocities of the 20th century are no longer enough to justify all the effort to integrate Europe — especially the notion of a sacred Franco-German union. Speaking in Aachen, Germany, in January, he called the reconciliation of a once-warring Europe “chose faite” — “a task accomplished.” Both countries agree that many of the real threats to European peace today loom outside its borders: terrorism, the new great-power competition between China and the United States, and Russian interferences in European elections, to name just a few. A new narrative is needed, and it needs to be practical rather than proto-religious. But rhetoric is easy; extruding it into a compelling unified vision, let alone specific policies, is much harder. And so far, when it comes to anything beyond mere talk, the gap between the two countries grows ever wider.Here are just a few examples: Germany and France deeply disagree on a strategy regarding European-American trade talks, even as American auto tariffs loom. The German economy relies on exports to the United States, especially cars, and would gladly accept higher agricultural imports to offset its trade surplus in manufactured goods. But France, whose agriculture lobby is strong, has so far resisted such concessions.Or consider the tensions leading up to a last-minute compromise over the controversial Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which, when completed, will carry Russian natural gas into Germany and on to Western Europe. France had pushed hard for European control over the negotiations, while Germany insisted on taking the lead. Germany, which is home to several companies involved in the Russian-led consortium building the pipeline, supports it; much of the rest of Europe is skeptical, if not afraid of it as a geopolitical threat. France’s concession to Germany, allowing it to remain the lead negotiator, does not hide its deep philosophical difference: While France insisted on a collective European action, Germany defended its self-interest over its neighbors’.The list continues into the field of defense and security policies. Last year, Germany unilaterally put a hold on exports of weapons to Saudi Arabia after the murder of the journalist Jamal Kashoggi — though both countries had pledged to coordinate their export policies — angering France. The two countries diverge on their assessment of the trans-Atlantic relationship, and on how sharp a reaction is needed toward China’s geopolitical and technological expansion. (They did agree to renew their cooperation on developing a replacement for the Eurofighter Typhoon, but that was more of a business decision than a political one.)In public, Mr. Macron and Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, are amicable, and no one is warning of a political crisis — yet. But Germany’s resistance to Mr. Macron’s vision for a new European compact means that for now the two countries will continue to drift apart. Weirdly, my country, Germany, still seems to be lacking all sense of urgency. It does not have a competing vision, so much as a competing motive. Perhaps it has grown complacent in an era where its economic dominance on the Continent has too often meant that, for better or worse, it gets its way when it comes to European Union policy. In a fracturing European Union, it is up to France and Germany to keep things together, which means that Germany needs to compromise, even if it comes at a political cost at home. Covering the stalemate under a thick layer of love talk won’t be enough to transcend the troubles of the Franco-German relationship. France and Germany do not lack love. We don’t even lack understanding. We lack action.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Anna Sauerbrey, a contributing opinion writer since 2015, has been an editor and writer at the German daily newspaper Der Tagesspiegel since 2011.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Palko KaraszLONDON — Ordering landlords to check prospective tenants’ immigration status leads to racial discrimination and breaches human rights, Britain’s High Court has ruled, in a judgment that deals a blow to migration control measures championed by Prime Minister Theresa May.The mandatory checks are one plank in what has become known as the government’s “hostile environment” policy, which aims to force people in the country illegally to leave by blocking their access to jobs, bank accounts and free medical care, among other things.The policy has been criticized as imposing heavy burdens on legal immigrants and British citizens who are not white but are obliged to prove their status repeatedly. It has brought particularly harsh consequences for the “Windrush generation” of migrants encouraged to move from the Caribbean after World War II to help with Britain’s reconstruction, many of whom never had — or previously needed — the sort of documents demanded.Landlords said the mandatory checks made them “unwilling border police” and discouraged them from renting to anyone whose migration status might not be straightforward.The judgment does not strike down the 2014 legislation that imposed document checks on tenants in England. But it asks Parliament to reconsider how the law is applied and blocks plans to extend the checks to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.A report commissioned by the Residential Landlords Association — which backed the legal challenge brought by an immigrant rights group and decided by the High Court on Friday — found that close to half of landlords were less likely to rent to someone without a British passport.“The measures have a disproportionately discriminatory effect,” Justice Martin Spencer said in his judgment. Even if the checks had been shown to be effective in controlling migration, he added, he “would have found that this was significantly outweighed by the discriminatory effect.”Evidence submitted to the court showed that the government had failed to measure whether the checks resulted in discrimination, or even whether they helped detect and remove people who were in the country illegally.According to the Migration Observatory at the University of Oxford, forced removals and voluntary departures from Britain have declined since 2013.“The net has been cast too wide and the effect of the scheme has been to cause landlords to commit nationality and/or race discrimination against those who are perfectly entitled to rent, with the result that they are less able to find homes than (white) British citizens,” the judge said, citing claims from the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants, which brought the case to court.Mrs. May, who was Britain’s home secretary for six years before becoming prime minister in 2016, has been closely identified with moves to tighten the country’s migration policies. She promised to create “a really hostile environment” for illegal immigration in a 2012 interview with The Daily Telegraph, although her government now prefers to speak of a “compliant environment.”Measures to achieve that included a poster campaign, with billboards driven on vans across London’s suburbs in the summer of 2013, urging those in the country illegally to “Go home or face arrest.”The billboards drew widespread criticism and quickly disappeared. But they were followed by the legislation mandating document checks at many key points in daily life, a cultural shift for Britain, which has no mandatory identity card system, unlike many European countries, and has long considered its relative lack of official paperwork a point of national pride.Criticism of the measures reached a peak last year, when the government had to apologize to Windrush migrants — the name refers to the Empire Windrush, the liner that brought the first large postwar group of arrivals from the West Indies — who had lived legally in Britain for decades but lost their jobs, were denied medical care and even faced the threat of deportation.Friday’s judgment was “another nail in the coffin for the government’s misguided, discriminatory and unworkable hostile environment policy,” Lara ten Caten, a solicitor with Liberty, a group that campaigns for civil liberties and supported the court challenge, told the BBC.“While effective immigration control is a legitimate aim for any government, the Home Office must stop outsourcing its discriminatory policies to third parties who are ill-equipped to enforce them but may be slapped with heavy fines and even end up in prison if they don’t,” she added.The Residential Landlords Association called on the government to scrap the checks and stop relying on landlords to “do the job of the Home Office.”“We have warned all along that turning landlords into untrained and unwilling border police would lead to the exact form of discrimination the court has found,” it said in a statement on Friday.In an emailed statement, the Home Office said it was disappointed with the judgment and that it had been granted permission to appeal.“In the meantime, we are giving careful consideration to the judge’s comments,” the statement said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam Jordan and Caitlin DickersonOAKLAND, Calif. — Nearly nine months after the Trump administration officially rescinded its policy of separating migrant families who have illegally crossed the border, more than 200 migrant children have been taken from parents and other relatives and placed in institutional care, with some spending months in shelters and foster homes thousands of miles away from their parents.The latest data reported to the federal judge monitoring one of the most controversial of President Trump’s immigration policies shows that 245 children have been removed from their families since the court ordered the government to halt routine separations under last spring’s “zero tolerance” border enforcement policy. Some of the new separations are being undertaken with no clear documentation to help track the children’s whereabouts.Images of crying mothers and children at the border last year prompted an intense backlash across party lines, with all four living former first ladies and Melania Trump expressing horror at the policy. But despite President Trump’s June 20 executive order rescinding it, the practice was never completely suspended.Under the original policy, most children were removed because parents who illegally crossed the border were subject to criminal prosecution. The recent separations have occurred largely because parents have been flagged for fraud, a communicable disease or past criminal history — in some cases relatively minor violations, years in the past, that ordinarily would not lead to the loss of parental custody.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The new separations are taking place amid an unprecedented influx of migrant families from across the southern border that has highlighted the failure of the Trump administration’s hard-line policies to deter them. The Border Patrol detained 76,103 migrants in February, an 11-year high for that month. Among those intercepted were about 40,000 members of families, two-thirds more than in January.In Congress last week, Democrats grilled Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, over the separation policy, citing research that has found that separations from parents can inflict long-term psychological harm on children.Family separations also sometimes occurred under the Obama administration, but only rarely and in extreme cases in which a child’s safety appeared to be at risk.Customs and Border Protection officials say the separations are legal under the parameters set by the court and are intended to protect children, who they say may be threatened by human trafficking or by adults pretending to be a parent to capitalize on the advantage that gives them under American immigration laws.“C.B.P. does not declare that a parent poses danger to a child arbitrarily or without merit,” the agency said in a statement. It said agents “will maintain family unity to the greatest extent operationally feasible,” separating children only in the presence of “a legal requirement” set out in written policy or “an articulable safety or security concern that requires separation.”But opposition to the new separations has been growing from both outside and inside the federal government. At the Health and Human Services Department’s Office of Refugee Resettlement, which oversees the care of separated children until they can be reunited with their families, some officials have tried to resist receiving children referred to the agency by the Border Patrol.According to an official who was not authorized to discuss government business and spoke on the condition of anonymity, staff members have in some cases raised questions with Border Patrol agents about separations with what appear to be little or no justification. In some of those cases, border agents have refused to provide additional information, the official said, or if additional documents were provided, they were sometimes redacted to the point of illegibility.The official, along with another staff member at the Department of Homeland Security, the Border Patrol’s parent agency, said that some separations were occurring with no formal notification to the refugee resettlement office. Both officials said they had been made aware of concerns about an apparent inconsistency in standards applied by border agents when determining whether a family should be separated.The failure to keep accurate records suggests that more children could have been separated than the 245 accounted for by Feb. 20 in official records.The New York Times reviewed several cases of children who have been separated since the policy was officially ended, and learned of many others through the lawyers who handled them. Some of the new separations, the review showed, occurred in families with a parent who had a drunken-driving conviction in the past, or a 20-year-old nonviolent robbery conviction. In one case, a parent had been convicted of possession of a small amount of marijuana.Donna Abbott, vice president for refugee and immigrant services at Bethany Christian Services, a contractor that accommodates migrant children in temporary foster homes until they can be reunited with family members, said most cases of family separations do not list detailed reasons, making it difficult to evaluate whether they were appropriate.For example, some files state only that the parent was suspected of having gang affiliations or a criminal history, without additional information. “Is it trespassing or is it murder?” Ms. Abbott said.In December, a mother traveling from El Salvador with her three children was arrested and put on a bus to an immigration detention facility in Arizona while her children, ages 5, 8 and 15, were sent to foster care in New York.The woman, Deisy Ramirez, 38, said it was nearly six weeks before she talked to her children.They were “devastated,” said Ms. Ramirez’s sister, Silvia Ramirez, who was trying to persuade the government to allow her to take the children to live with her in Seattle while her sister was in custody. “They couldn’t understand why they were separated,” she said.On March 1, Ms. Ramirez’s eldest daughter was transferred to a hospital after threatening to take her own life, Silvia Ramirez said, and she remained there even after her mother’s release from detention last week.“I never imagined this could happen,” Deisy Ramirez said on Friday, her voice breaking. “All I want is to hold my children and to be with them.”Her lawyer, Ricardo de Anda, said he had received no response to his formal request for a reason for the separation. He suspects it may be connected to the fact that Ms. Ramirez had been deported from the United States more than a decade ago. He sent government lawyers a series of emails, ultimately securing her release.On Saturday, the day after her release from the Arizona detention facility, Ms. Ramirez was preparing to fly to New York to reunite with her children.Border agents removed 3-year-old Ashley Ramos from her father after they were detained last month in Arizona. He was swiftly deported to Guatemala and the girl was sent to a shelter.The child’s mother, Silvia Maribel Ramos, who had been separated from the pair during their journey from Guatemala when Mexican police pulled her and other migrants off their bus for questioning, arrived in Arizona a few days later, only to learn from authorities that her child was gone.“They told me they had no idea where she was, that I would find out after being released,” said Ms. Ramos, who is staying with relatives in Oakland, Calif.The child was located nearly two weeks later, she said, after her husband contacted Guatemalan authorities back home. Now Ms. Ramos is struggling with the paperwork required to recover Ashley. “My daughter can’t understand. She just weeps and begs to be with us,” she said.In late January, Victor Antonio Marin was separated from his 4-year-old son, whose mother is deceased, after they were detained near Calexico, Calif. According to his lawyer, Bob Boyce, Mr. Marin had a 20-year-old nonviolent robbery conviction in the United States that did not involve the use of a weapon. He served time and was deported back to El Salvador.Now Mr. Marin remains locked up in an immigration detention center while his child is in a shelter in Texas.Ruben Garcia, who runs a network of migrant shelters in El Paso, said that immigration authorities this month dropped off a distraught 18-year-old woman from Guatemala.The woman said she had given birth less than a week earlier and had been separated from her baby. Child welfare authorities had come to the hospital to take the child, who was a United States citizen; immigration agents took the mother back to a detention cell where she waited for several days. The baby’s first two weeks were spent away from the mother, who finally regained custody after interventions from multiple legal-aid groups, Mr. Garcia said.Since Mr. Trump ended the family separations under “zero tolerance” on June 20, about 2,700 children have been reunited with their parents. Still, thousands more children who were separated before the policy officially went into effect have not been accounted for, according to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. The investigators cited the lack of an efficient tracking system.The American Civil Liberties Union requested that the government locate the families, and on Friday, Judge Dana M. Sabraw ruled that they should be included in the pending litigation over protecting and reuniting separated families.“The hallmark of a civilized society is measured by how it treats its people and those within its borders,” the judge wrote in his opinion.Some families affected by the earlier zero-tolerance separations continue to face repercussions.A 9-year-old Guatemalan boy named Byron Xol has been shuffled among four shelters since he was dragged away from his father at the border nine months ago, while the policy was still in place.After his father was deported to Guatemala, the boy’s parents decided that the child should remain in the United States for safety reasons. With the help of a lawyer, they designated an American family in Buda, Tex., to care for him.But authorities have refused to allow Byron to join the family, citing an anti-trafficking policy that bars a child from being released to a nonrelative sponsor unless the sponsor has a verifiable relationship with the child going back at least a year.Detentions and deportation proceedings have also resulted in family separations far from the border.Christy Swatzell, an immigration lawyer in Memphis, said that two of her clients who crossed the border without authorization and were released to await the outcome of their cases were told by Immigration and Customs Enforcement to leave their children at home ahead of their monthly check-in with the agency. When they showed up at the I.C.E. office, they were detained and transferred to an immigration facility in Louisiana.One of the clients, Francisca Yanes, 33, is the mother of a 6-year-old girl who is physically disabled. “I was in tears, telling them about my daughter. But it didn’t matter,” said Ms. Yanes, whose child, Paola, remained in the care of family members for the entire 45 days she was in detention.The Guatemalan migrant was released on a $7,500 bond set by the court after her lawyer filed a motion on her behalf. “What we are seeing is that families are being effectively separated,” said Ms. Swatzell. “Just not at the border anymore.”Miriam Jordan reported from Oakland, Calif., and Caitlin Dickerson reported from New York.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy William K. Rashbaum and Ben Protess[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]New York State regulators have issued an expansive subpoena to the Trump Organization’s longtime insurance broker, the first step in an investigation of insurance policies and claims involving President Trump’s family business, according to the company and a person briefed on the matter.The subpoena was served late Monday on the company, Aon, one of the largest insurance brokerage firms in the world, as part of an inquiry by the New York State Department of Financial Services.It came just days after Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former fixer and lawyer, indicated in congressional testimony that the Trump Organization inflated the value of its assets to insurance companies.The subpoena is the latest sign that the Trump Organization is facing scrutiny from multiple fronts — federal prosecutors, congressional Democrats, and now, insurance regulators.The Department of Financial Services does not conduct criminal investigations, nor does it have authority over Mr. Trump or the Trump Organization, but it can refer any possible illegal activity to prosecutors.The federal prosecutors in Manhattan have been investigating the Trump Organization’s role in hush money payments to women who claimed to have affairs with Mr. Trump. Mr. Cohen, who pleaded guilty to federal crimes in connection with those payments, has also told the prosecutors about irregularities in the company’s insurance practices, The New York Times reported last month.While the prosecutors are largely viewed as independent, the president and his allies have dismissed much of the other scrutiny as politically motivated.The subpoena from the state agency that regulates insurance, which is part of the administration of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat and vocal critic of Mr. Trump, landed on the same day that even broader scrutiny came to bear on the president, his administration and his business from House Democrats.The House Judiciary Committee on Monday unleashed a blizzard of 81 letters demanding documents from people and businesses, including President Trump’s company and several of his family members, kicking off the committee’s sweeping investigation into possible obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by Mr. Trump.The subpoena that was served on Aon contains no indication that the company or any of its employees engaged in misconduct, the person said. Nor does it specify any possible wrongdoing that is the focus of the inquiry by state regulators.Insurance brokers such as Aon help companies evaluate their risk and connect them with underwriters, the companies that offer the actual coverage. For this service, the brokers receive a fee or commission, usually paid by the client.The nine-page subpoena demands a broad range of materials regarding Aon’s business with Mr. Trump and the Trump Organization dating back to 2009, according to the person briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Among other things, it seeks copies of all communications between Aon and Mr. Trump and the Trump Organization, as well as all internal Aon documents relating to Mr. Trump and the company, the person said.The regulators are also looking at compensation for the current and former Aon employees who handled the Trump Organization account, seeking information about their incentives, bonus payments or commissions. They are seeking similar contracts and agreements between Aon and Mr. Trump.A spokeswoman for Aon, Donna Mirandola, said the company intended to cooperate, adding: “We do not comment on specific client matters.” The White House referred a request for comment to the Trump Organization, which did not respond to requests for comment. A spokesman for the Department of Financial Services declined to comment.The Department of Financial Services is a powerful agency that regulates and supervises the insurance industry — including brokers, brokerage firms and underwriters in New York — as well as banking and other financial institutions.The agency’s authority is limited to civil regulatory actions, although it can refer possible criminal conduct to the office of a local district attorney or the State Attorney General.However, under the New York State insurance law, the department, headed by Acting Superintendent Linda A. Lacewell, can take action against the companies and individuals it regulates, including brokers and underwriters. It can issue fines or a range of other penalties, including revoking their licenses to do business in New York.This is not the first time that the agency has examined the business practices involving the Trump Organization. In 2017, the agency scrutinized the company’s long relationship with Deutsche Bank, which the agency regulates and which is one of the president’s few lenders on Wall Street. The examination concluded without the agency taking any action against the bank.Mr. Cohen’s testimony, however, provides additional fuel to advance the insurance inquiry.At a hearing in front of the House Oversight Committee last week, when asked by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a New York Democrat, whether the president ever inflated his assets to an insurance company, Mr. Cohen simply replied, “Yes.”The New York regulators are requesting copies of the insurance policies ultimately issued to Mr. Trump and the Trump Organization, as well as applications and financial statements used to secure the policies, the person said.The subpoena requests that the materials — undoubtedly a vast swath of documents, data, emails, policies and other records — be turned over by March 19. The regulators will likely then issue additional subpoenas or requests to the underwriters and possibly other companies and individuals identified in response to this subpoena.It could take the agency’s investigators months to analyze all the information they collect.Maggie Haberman and Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie HabermanThe former White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, on Wednesday declined to answer questions about the existence of a memo he wrote saying that President Trump had ordered officials to give his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, a security clearance in May 2018.Mr. Kelly also broke with Mr. Trump on key aspects of his approach to immigration and the NATO alliance, and said that his top concern about decisions made by the president was whether they were objectively right for the country when divorced from political concerns.Mr. Kelly, who kept his voice level during a 90-minute question-and-answer session at Duke University, would not specifically address Mr. Kushner’s clearance being ordered by Mr. Trump, which The New York Times reported last week.“I couldn’t — and I’m not dodging — I couldn’t comment on that for a couple of reasons,” Mr. Kelly said, citing clearances being among the things that he could not discuss, and that conversations with the president “at that level would certainly” be kept confidential under executive privilege.Asked specifically about whether he had ever created memos for the record, Mr. Kelly said, “I’d prefer not to talk about that.”Mr. Trump ordered the chief of staff to get Mr. Kushner a clearance after it stalled for most of the first half of the president’s term over concerns from the F.B.I. and career security officials about Mr. Kushner’s personal foreign contacts, as well as those related to his family’s real-estate business.Mr. Trump has the legal authority to overrule recommendations from security clearance officials. But his action added to ongoing questions about how people obtained them, and it contradicted a statement at the time from Mr. Kushner’s lawyer that his clearance went through a normal process. And the president himself asserted to The Times in an Oval Office interview in January that he had not directed Mr. Kelly or anyone else to grant a clearance.In his conversation at Duke with Professor Peter Feaver, Mr. Kelly said that his 18 months as the chief of staff were the “least” favorite job he had held, but the most important. He acknowledged that his colleagues in the Marine Corps, where he served as a four-star general, might not like hearing that.However, Mr. Kelly said, during that time, Mr. Trump “went from a guy who didn’t know how the system works” to one “who understands how it works.”Mr. Kelly, who left at the end of December, also made clear he did not consider himself working for Mr. Trump, but doing his civic duty to serve. If Hillary Clinton had won, he said, he probably would have worked for her as well.Mr. Kelly defended the utility of the NATO alliance, which Mr. Trump has often criticized as an unfair financial drain on the United States.On a wall at the border with Mexico, Mr. Kelly said that there were specific areas where it could be effective but constructing one “from sea to shining sea” was a “waste of money.”The issuance of the zero-tolerance policy for border crossings that resulted in family separations “came as a surprise” to him and to other officials, Mr. Kelly said, defending his replacement as secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Kirstjen Nielsen, from criticism. He appeared to place most of the blame on the former attorney general, Jeff Sessions, who announced the policy.Of people crossing the border who are apprehended, Mr. Kelly contradicted the president. “They’re overwhelmingly not criminals — they’re people coming up here for economic” purposes. Mr. Trump has regularly portrayed immigrants crossing at the southern border as dangerous lawbreakers.He also joked wryly about the advice he gave his successor, Mick Mulvaney: “Run for it,” Mr. Kelly said, to laughter. On a serious note, he said, he told him the chief of staff’s job was to tell the president “what he needs to hear.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Reed AbelsonIn a scathing decision released Tuesday, a federal judge in Northern California ruled that a unit of UnitedHealth Group, the giant health insurer, had created internal policies aimed at effectively discriminating against patients with mental health and substance abuse disorders to save money.U.S. Chief Magistrate Judge Joseph C. Spero found that United Behavioral Health, the insurer’s unit that administers treatments for mental illness and addiction in private health plans, had violated its fiduciary duty under federal law.In his 106-page decision, Judge Spero described the company’s guidelines as “unreasonable and an abuse of discretion” and having been “infected” by financial incentives meant to restrict access to care.“There is an excessive emphasis on addressing acute symptoms and stabilizing crises while ignoring the effective treatment of members’ underlying conditions,” he said. He dismissed much of the testimony by UnitedHealth’s experts as “evasive — and even deceptive.”Patients said they were denied care as soon as they appeared stable. One of the plaintiffs in the case said in a filing her son, who struggled with substance abuse, died after he was forced to leave a residential treatment facility when the insurer denied coverage.“In our view, it’s a monumental win for mental health and substance abuse patients,” said D. Brian Hufford, an attorney with Zuckerman Spaeder, who, along with Psych-Appeal, a private law firm specializing in insurance coverage for mental health issues, is representing the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs are part of a class-action lawsuit against United Behavioral Health, and say they were covered under the United plans from 2011 to 2017 and denied care.In the aftermath of the ruling, the company maintained that it had not failed to provide the proper care.“We look forward to demonstrating in the next phase of this case how our members received appropriate care,” said UnitedHealth in an emailed statement. “We remain committed to providing our members with access to the right care for the treatment of mental health conditions and substance use disorders.”Judge Spero is expected to reach a final judgment in the next few months.The case represents the latest development in the contentious debate over how health insurance companies cover mental health and substance abuse disorders, as compared to medical conditions like diabetes, multiple sclerosis and asthma. In spite of the passage of a federal law, the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008, patients have long complained about the difficulty of getting care covered, especially when they are in no immediate danger.When the federal parity law prevented insurers from placing sharp limits on behavioral health coverage, the companies “came up with an even more insidious approach,” Mr. Hufford said, by developing internal rules that focused on providing expensive outpatient and residential care only when patients were acutely ill.Once the acute condition was treated, the companies would reduce or deny services, he said. The care “wasn’t addressing the underlying issue or the chronic condition,” he said.Advocates praised the judge’s decision as making clear that insurers cannot ignore standards that would be applied to other forms of medical care in determining whether they will cover a mental health or substance abuse treatment. “This should put health plans on notice that they simply can’t make up the rules as they go along,” said Angela Kimball, the national director of public policy and advocacy for NAMI, the National Alliance on Mental Illness.Such denials of care are not limited to UnitedHealth, said Patrick Kennedy, the mental health advocate and former member of Congress who is pushing for stronger enforcement of federal and state parity laws. The judge’s ruling that UnitedHealth had not complied with the law is an “independent validation of what we have as advocates been saying for 11 years since this law was passed,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWith Trump and Putin pulling out of treaties, it may be up to Congress to prevent an arms race. By Michael KreponMr. Krepon is writing a book on the rise, demise and revival of nuclear arms control. The globe’s nuclear safety net is fraying badly. Dangers of nuclear confrontations are growing not only in Europe, with decisions by the presidents of both nuclear superpowers, Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin, to withdraw from a treaty banning intermediate-range missiles; they are suddenly rising, too, in Asia, where India and Pakistan — both nuclear powers — have carried out conventional airstrikes across the Kashmir divide. Elsewhere in Asia, negotiations between Mr. Trump and North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, to begin a denuclearization process have abruptly ended. The thickest, weight-bearing strands of this safety net are treaties that have been cast aside without being replaced. With diplomacy sidelined, policymakers are left with nuclear threats to deter competitors. But deterrence rests on the underlying possibility of the use of nuclear weapons; otherwise, they would cease to deter. This can lead to tragic miscalculations. Treaties, by contrast, muffle and reduce threats. So “strengthening” deterrence without treaties and diplomacy is dangerous; it’s a recipe for threatening your way into tight corners, as India and Pakistan have again shown. Hope to find an alternative to deterrence springs eternal. Some strategies seek escape through abolition of nuclear arms or the missiles that could deliver them. Others aim for victory rather than deterrence, by putting a protective missile defense shield in space. Those brands of escapism invite failure and heighten nuclear dangers, while the combination of deterrence and diplomacy has a proven record. One of the great ironies of the Cold War is that the acceptance of mutual vulnerability backstopped three decades of nuclear arms control and, eventually, deep cuts in the nuclear arsenals of Russia and the United States.But now, killing treaties has become another form of escapism. After the Sept. 11 attacks, the George W. Bush administration announced America’s withdrawal from the Antiballistic Missile Treaty signed between the two superpowers in 1972. Mr. Putin’s response was to walk away from a 1993 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty that prohibited land-based missiles from carrying multiple warheads, or MIRVs. Eliminating these missiles was a long-sought goal of arms control. Now Russia is deploying MIRVed missiles in the worst possible way — with easily targeted, slow-to-use liquid-fueled missiles based in silos — conditions that could provoke a launching at the first suspicion of an attack, even if unverified, for fear that they would be destroyed.In August, Moscow and Washington seem set to leave the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty signed by Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev in 1987 — the treaty that broke the back of the Cold War nuclear arms race. Mr. Trump has announced America’s withdrawal without seeking to negotiate remedies to Russian violations. In his view, nothing less than destroying the offending Russian missiles would do. But now, Mr. Putin is free to deploy more of them.Next up is “New Start,” the sole surviving Russian-American treaty that limits longer-range missiles. It could be extended for another five years, but Mr. Trump and his national security adviser, John Bolton, have neither the diplomatic skills nor apparently an interest in extending its terms or negotiating better ones. On top of this, Mr. Trump and Mr. Bolton have championed new missile defense plans to protect every American city from any missiles from any origin.The problem with such plans is that ground-based missile defense interceptors remain woefully unable to do this — they don’t have enough time to catch up to their targets. The only theoretical hope to protect American cities lies in space-based interceptors. But that pursuit, like President Reagan’s Strategic Defense Initiative, is most likely to again fail for technical, financial and political reasons. If the United States deploys interceptors in space, Russia and China will probably pursue countermeasures in the form of space mines that could trail American space-based interceptors, at a small fraction of the cost. In other words, the hair trigger of terrestrial nuclear warfare would simply be duplicated in space.How did we manage to survive the seven harrowing decades since Hiroshima and Nagasaki without the battlefield use of nuclear weapons? Deterrence alone didn’t produce this result; the combination of deterrence and diplomacy did. This safety net was the greatest unacknowledged achievement during the Cold War. It now has very little load-bearing capacity left.The champions of jettisoning treaties have no sensible strategy or diplomatic road map to replace the nuclear safety net they are cutting. They rely on muscle flexing, dictation and unilateralism, which are mere postures, not strategy. This will not end well. Russia and China have the means to counter an America that seeks to escape deterrence and denigrate diplomacy. Nuclear dangers will rise as a result.When the executive branch loses its moorings, it’s up to Congress to steady the ship of state. Avoiding a new arms race will be difficult but not impossible. Mr. Putin knows he would lose it because America has superior technology and Russia’s economy is in bad shape. China’s strategy has been to avoid overspending on nuclear weapons while pursuing other means of negating American power, including with space and cyber warfare. Building up American nuclear capacity is not an effective counter to either of those.Instead, Congress could choose to reduce nuclear excess through the power of the purse. Ordinarily, the job of orchestrating restraint is best left to the executive branch, and besides, Congress doesn’t do nuance very well. But temporizing actions are probably the most we can do until there is a change in government, and stabilizing matters over the next two years will be hard to do. Still, a new arms race isn’t foreordained — yet — and with enough common sense, we can avoid one.The more Mr. Trump flails, Mr. Bolton tears down and Mr. Putin sows fear and broadcasts threats, the more Capitol Hill is obliged to step up. The nuclear safety net that previous generations bequeathed to us is in desperate need of repair. For the time being, there’s nowhere else to turn but Congress.Michael Krepon is a co-founder of the Stimson Center, a Washington-based policy research institute. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHow much does Nancy Pelosi have to worry about a left-center split?By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.There is a larger story behind the bitterness expressed inside the House Democratic caucus last week after 26 moderate Democratic members defied the leadership to support a Republican proposal to require reporting undocumented immigrants who try to buy guns to immigration authorities.Two key wings of the congressional Democratic Party have divergent political interests — on one hand the ascendant progressives led by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, many of whom have proudly declared themselves democratic socialists, and on the other the band of moderates who flipped most of the 41 districts that went from red to blue in November.The progressives are committed to an ambitious and expensive set of proposals, including a Green New Deal and Medicare for All, policies they have promised to promote unrelentingly.This agenda, and the attention it gets, has put the fear of defeat in 2020 front and center in the minds of newly elected House moderates. They see their progressive colleagues shaping an image of a Democratic House leaning so far to the left that it endangers the future of the current House majority.A story published Feb. 24 by my Times colleagues Catie Edmondson and Emily Cochrane described the agony of the moderate wing.At a town hall last month in a suburb of Salt Lake City, Ben McAdams, one of the moderate freshman Democrats, faced constituents questioning him about the “socialism” and “anti-Semitism” they had read about. “How long do you intend to ride that train with those people?” one voter asked. Another wondered whether McAdams would be “corrupted” by his service in Congress.McAdams’ answer captured the bind he and other centrists find themselves in:“There have been some articles about this, a little bit of tension on the Democratic side: Are we going to veer to the far left or are we going to stay in the center? I don’t know where the Democratic Party will go, but I tell you what, I will stay in the center. People are going to have to take it or leave it.”The question for McAdams and others is, will such declarations of independence insulate them on Election Day? Some evidence suggests that they will not.Let’s first examine the specific issue that brought intraparty Democratic tension between moderates and progressives to a boil: a seemingly bland parliamentary gambit called a “motion to recommit” — known in Congressional jargon as an M.T.R.Under House rules, the motion to recommit is one of the few mechanisms granted to the out-of-power party to shape legislation.“Controlling the Congressional agenda really is the sine qua non of a successful majority party,” Sarah Binder, a political scientist at George Washington University and a senior fellow at Brookings, told me.If there is one thing that sets Nancy Pelosi apart from other Democratic speakers, it is her ability to maintain control of the Democratic majority on key votes.It is no wonder, then, that she was outraged when these 26 moderate Democrats supported a Republican motion to recommit on Feb. 27 — explicitly designed to thwart progressive Democrats who adamantly oppose reporting undocumented immigrants to authorities. To Pelosi, the motion was an aggressive attempt on the part of House Republicans to undermine her leadership, and moderate Democratic members who supported it were seeking political cover at her expense.“We are either a team or we’re not, and we have to make that decision,” she declared at the Democratic caucus meeting. “This is not a day at the beach. This is the Congress of the United States.”In recent decades, “the motion to recommit has been weaponized,” Tom Mann, a senior fellow at Brookings, wrote me by email. “Like almost every effort on the floor by the minority party in the face of majority control of the agenda in the majoritarian House, it is an electoral weapon used to divide and weaken the majority.”Jason Roberts, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina, provided a brief history of the motion in an email. “It was made into a minority right in 1909. It did not really become controversial until the 1970s. Before then, most bills were considered under open rules” that allowed anyone from either party to offer amendments. In the 1970s, Roberts explained, the Democratic majority “began using more restrictive rules that limited or closed off amending opportunities.” This left Republicans with only one alternative to force a vote on an amendment: the motion to recommit.Both parties have made considerable use of the motion when in the minority, but historical analysis demonstrates that it has been a far more effective tool for Republicans than for Democrats.From 1995 to 2006, according to Roberts, Democrats, then in the minority, used it 262 times — but successfully only 1.1 percent of the time. In contrast, from 2007 through 2010, Republicans, then in the minority, forced votes on 181 motions to recommit and won 21.5 percent. Then, from 2011 through 2018, the Democratic minority offered 380 motions to recommit and every one of them failed in the face of united Republican opposition.During the current session of Congress, Republicans successfully won approval of a motion to recommit on legislation requiring universal background checks on all gun sales, including those conducted privately and at gun shows.The motion — passed with the support of the 26 Democratic defectors who infuriated Pelosi — amended the legislation to require notification of Immigration and Customs Enforcement when an undocumented immigrant fails a background check.Almost all of the 26 Democrats who joined Republicans to support the motion represent moderate constituencies, many of which had, until recently, been held by Republicans. Twenty three are on the 2020 National Republican Congressional Committee target list.There are two key factors that explain why Republicans in the House have been far more successful than Democrats in using the motion to recommit to divide the opposition.The first is that the concentration of Democratic voters in urban districts means that in order to win and maintain a House majority, Democrats must be victorious in highly competitive districts, many of which tilt to the right.These Democrats, in turn, are the ones who are the most cross-pressured between loyalty to the leadership and fear of losing support from center-right constituents.“There are more Democrats representing Republican-leaning districts than there are Republicans representing Democratic-leaning districts,” Frances Lee, a political scientist at the University of Maryland, wrote me in an email.In 2018, she continued, “Democrats carried a larger share of districts where members have to be careful not to antagonize their Republican-leaning constituents.”The second reason Republicans rarely provide even token support for Democratic motions to recommit is straightforward: a vast array of local and national conservative media is more than willing to denounce a turncoat. And anyone viewed as disloyal to the Republican Party is likely to face a primary challenger.Matthew Green, a political scientist at Catholic University, has studied the use of motions to recommit and describes the partisan difference as follows:“First, Democrats are more ideologically diverse than Republicans. Second, Democratic Party leaders are more divided on strategy than Republicans.”This is a serious problem, Green continued, “especially if Democrats want to maintain their control of the legislative agenda and keep peace in the family.”In the past, moderate and conservative Democrats sought to separate themselves from the more liberal national party by building a personal brand that their local voters would recognize. This worked when Tip O’Neill’s famous adage, “All politics is local,” was an effective principle in congressional elections.“Old-timers like me remember the 40-year span during which Democrats maintained control of the House through a coalition of liberals, moderates and even a few conservatives,” Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, recalled in an email. “They did so by tolerating defections if that was the price of re-election: ‘Vote your district first’.” Liberals still “have to be reminded that there are simply not enough liberals out there to form a majority,” Jacobson added.The problem now is that the politics of congressional elections are no longer local. In the years since O’Neill retired as speaker in 1987, American politics have become nationalized.If a conservative or moderate Democrat is running in a Republican-leaning district, he or she must persuade a segment of the electorate to split their tickets, to vote Republican for president, for example, and vote Democrat for the House.The reality is that split ticket voting is steadily disappearing as more and more voters cast uniformly partisan ballots.The accompanying chart, a version of which appeared in a paper by Alan Abramowitz and Steven Webster, political scientists at Emory and Washington University in St. Louis, “Negative Partisanship: Why Americans Dislike Parties But Behave Like Rabid Partisans,” demonstrates this trend.It shows that the percentage of voters splitting their tickets has fallen from 41.3 percent in 1980 to just over 14.3 percent in 2016.Percentage who voted straight ticket vs. split in presidential election years.100% OF VOTERS86%85%Straightticket806059%41%40Splitticket2015%14%’52’60’68’76’84’92’00’08’16100% OF VOTERS86%85%Straight ticket806059%41%40Split ticket2015%14%’52’60’68’76’84’92’00’08’16By The New York Times | Source: Steven W. Webster, Washington University in St. LouisThe result is that the number of Democrats and Republicans representing districts that lean to the opposite party has fallen from 132 in 1974 to fewer than 23 in 2018, as the second chart shows. (A version of this chart originally illustrated in a paper by Gary Jacobson, “Donald Trump and the 2018 Midterm Elections.”)Number of House candidates who won in districts that lean toward the opposite party. Data for 1962 and 1966 not available.120HOUSE SEATS90No Republicans won in Democratic-leaning districts in the last election.60Democrats30Republicans'52'60'70'80'90'00'10'18120HOUSE SEATS90No Republicans won in Democratic-leaning districts in the last election.60Democrats30Republicans'52'60'70'80'90'00'10'18By The New York Times | Source: Gary C. Jacobson, University of California, San DiegoThe near elimination of cross-party districts has, in turn, been particularly harmful to Democrats, who held roughly 114 of these districts in 1974, but only 23 in 2018.More specifically, these trends point to the consistent re-election difficulties faced by both Democrats and Republicans who are swept into office during wave elections like 1994, 2010 and 2014 (Republican) and 2006 and 2018 (Democratic). Their prospects are governed by the accounting principle “last in, first out.”All of which leads to the very real problem facing the House Democratic Majority. Tom Mann puts it this way:The nationalization of politics, the rise of intense negative partisanship, and the demise of split-ticket voting mean that the electoral fate of Democrats representing marginal districts now depends much more on the party brand than the candidate brand.E. J. Dionne, Jr., my longtime colleague at The Washington Post, wrote earlier this week that House Democrats will eventually resolve the problem of Republican motions to recommitby working out a better disciplined system of granting a limited number of “free passes" on especially tough votes while preventing wholesale defections.In Mann’s view, efforts by moderate Democrats to create an identity separate from their party by voting against their leadership will likely prove futile, because “Republicans will always attack them as liberals however they vote on these gotcha procedural motions.” In that light, maintaining party cohesion becomes more important:The keys to holding and increasing their 2018 gains in 2020 lies in the relative standing and unity of their party relative to Trump and his Republican enablers and the nomination of a presidential candidate who can keep the enthusiasm of the resistance alive and not scare away weak partisans and independents with outlandish policy proposals.Frances Lee raised another problem for moderate Democrats going into the 2020 elections:The resurgent far left of the party has received media attention out of proportion to its share of the party. The reason Democrats have a majority in the 116th Congress is that they carried so many suburban seats. These suburban members are not going to be blazing the trail for social democracy! But they get very little national media attention compared to the more ideologically strident members.David Hopkins, a political scientist at Boston College, shares Lee’s view:We’re also in a moment when a fair amount of news coverage is suggesting to the American public that the Democratic Party is in the midst of a socialist revolution that is pulling it sharply to the ideological left. The truth is that most newly-elected Democrats in Congress resemble Mikie Sherrill and Abigail Spanberger much more than they do Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez or Rashida Tlaib, but that isn’t the message that reporters and commentators are currently transmitting to their readers and viewers.Both Sherrill and Spanberger are moderates.A report by the centrist Democratic think tank Third Way demonstrates the crucial role moderate Democrats played in the 2018 takeover of the House.Third Way examined the Democratic victors in seats that had previously been held by Republicans — the victories that gave Democrats the majority — and found that none of them were part of or endorsed by the progressive mobilization led by the Justice Democrats, Brand New Congress and Our Revolution. In contrast, 33 of the House candidates endorsed by the moderate New Dem PAC won in districts that had been represented by Republicans.The Third Way report, in combination with the comments from Mann, Lee and Hopkins, suggests that House Democratic strategists — and Democrats generally — should find ways to counter the voices on the party’s left. Such an effort, however, could easily result in the alienation of the progressive wing that has brought grass roots energy to the fore, energy that would be critical to a 2020 Democratic presidential victory, as well as to House or Senate victories in battleground states across the county.The reality is that the Democratic Party is a diverse entity, racially, ethnically and ideologically. It is burdened — some would say blessed — with the problems of varied, often conflicting, interests. The struggle to come to terms with these tensions is constant and inescapable. Even shared hostility to President Trump and his Republican Party will not paper over the conflicts.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe New Health CareLimiting prescriptions seems logical, but a simulation study shows it would actually increase deaths, not decrease them, in the initial years. By Austin FraktThe unavoidable tension in attacking the opioid crisis is which time frame you’re talking about.In the short term, many policies that would limit opioid prescriptions for the purpose of saving lives would cause people to turn to heroin or fentanyl.In fact, over a 5-to-10-year period, that would increase deaths, not decrease them, according to a simulation study published in the American Journal of Public Health. The study was conducted by three Stanford University researchers, Allison Pitt, Keith Humphreys and Margaret Brandeau.“This doesn’t mean these policies should not be considered,” said Mr. Humphreys, a former senior policy adviser at the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy during the Obama administration. “Over longer periods, they will reduce deaths by reducing the number of people who initiate prescription opioids.”A large proportion — 80 percent by one estimate — of heroin users in the United States previously used prescription opioids. In some cases, they were directly prescribed narcotic pain relievers, perhaps after a painful dental procedure or operation. In addition, drugs prescribed to one person can be diverted to others who don’t use them for medical purposes. So restricting opioid prescriptions would seem to make sense.But it’s not so simple. That approach reduces access to drugs for people who legitimately need them for pain, as many readers, pointing to their own predicaments, have commented after Upshot articles on opioids.Amie Goodin, a researcher with the University of Florida College of Pharmacy who wrote an editorial accompanying the opioid policy simulation study, said, “Current policies to limit opioid prescriptions leave some pain patients high and dry, resulting in a new wave of unintended consequences for patients with untreated chronic pain.”“In addition to other approaches to addressing the opioid epidemic, there needs to be more nuanced prescribing rather than simply cutting people off opioids,” said Laura Burke, an emergency physician with Harvard Medical School and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health.Prescriptions could be avoided for cases of mild-to-moderate pain — think of a sprained ankle or a tooth extraction. Opioids could largely be reserved for much more severe pain — accompanying major surgery and cancer, for example. “We should rely more on other therapies to help patients handle less severe pain,” she added.The simulation study bears this out. Reducing opioids for short-term pain saves lives in the long run, even as it leaves some patients experiencing more pain. This is the fundamental trade-off opioids present, with which we have been battling for decades. As the pendulum swung further toward treating pain, opioid-related deaths ballooned. Now to stem the deaths, it is swinging back, challenging us to treat pain in other ways.(It’s important to point out that the simulation may not perfectly predict the consequences of policy change. It relies on assumptions and can’t anticipate unexpected societal changes. But it does show us some of the possible, unintended consequences of policies that we might not otherwise consider.)The opioid epidemic is really a syndemic, meaning it’s composed of multiple, concurrent epidemics — driven both by prescription pain medication and by illicit heroin and fentanyl. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that more than 70,000 people died of a drug overdose in the last year, most of them from opioids. By one estimate, over the next 10 years, opioids could kill over a half million more, two-thirds from heroin and one-third from prescription pills.A recent study in JAMA Network Open estimated that clamping down on opioid prescribing would result in a very small reduction in opioid-related overdose deaths relative to what it would be otherwise: no more than about 5 percent by 2025.The American Journal of Public Health study looked at the effects of 11 policies to address the consequences of opioids. These included tightening the reins on prescribing, like policies to promote greater prescription drug monitoring or limits on how many days that opioids could be prescribed — as is now expected for Medicare drug plan coverage and reflected in some private plans.They also include policies that would reduce harm from opioid misuse, like expanding the use of the overdose rescue medication naloxone or addiction treatment.The bad news in the short run is that no one policy, by itself, would put a substantial dent in the expected number of deaths from opioids. The most effective single policy, according to the study, is increasing the availability of naloxone. But doing so would reduce the total number of predicted opioid deaths over the next 10 years by only about 4 percent.“Expanding access to naloxone is inexpensive and saves lives,” said Ms. Pitt, lead author of the study. “That’s an attractive combination, but we should be realistic that it will only save a small percentage of opioid deaths.” For bigger gains, more must be done.The good news is that combining increased access to naloxone with more needle exchanges and addiction treatment could save more than twice the number of people than naloxone alone.Policy interventions can prevent many deaths, as well as the other destruction that opioids bring to individuals, families and communities. But prescription opioids are neither all bad nor all good. Policies that sound sensible — potentially helping many people — could also cause a lot of damage, particularly in the short run.An earlier version of this article misidentified a medical journal in which an opioid study appeared. It was JAMA Network Open, not JAMA.Austin Frakt is director of the Partnered Evidence-Based Policy Resource Center at the V.A. Boston Healthcare System; associate professor with Boston University’s School of Public Health; and adjunct associate professor with the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. He blogs at The Incidental Economist.  @afrakt AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Christina CaronFacebook announced Thursday its first policy to combat misinformation about vaccines, following in the footsteps of Pinterest and YouTube.The social network is adopting an approach similar to the one it uses to tackle fake news: The company will not remove incorrect content, but it will aim to reduce the reach of that content by making it harder to find.“Leading global health organizations, such as the World Health Organization and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, have publicly identified verifiable vaccine hoaxes,” Monika Bickert, Facebook’s vice president for global policy management, said in a statement Thursday. “If these vaccine hoaxes appear on Facebook, we will take action against them.”Anti-vaccination groups have flourished on Facebook, partly because of the site’s search results and “suggested groups” feature.The group Stop Mandatory Vaccination, for example, has nearly 159,000 members. Larry Cook, the founder, bragged on a recently deactivated GoFundMe page about an anti-vaccine Facebook video that he said was averaging over 100,000 views per day. “This is how we reach parents!” he wrote. The video has 50,000 shares and has been viewed 2.1 million times.Under Facebook’s new policy, groups and pages that spread misinformation about vaccines will have lower rankings and won’t be included in recommendations or predictions when users are searching within Facebook, the company said.Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, will have similar policies. “We won’t show or recommend content that contains misinformation about vaccinations on Instagram Explore or hashtag pages,” Ms. Bickert said in the statement.Facebook’s new rules come amid measles outbreaks in the United States and abroad, and just days after yet another study demonstrated that the measles vaccine doesn’t cause autism. The idea that vaccines are somehow linked to autism has been widely debunked, but still persists among anti-vaccination activists.Last month, Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, wrote a letter to Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, asking what steps the company was taking to prevent anti-vaccine information from being recommended to users.Facebook said its artificial intelligence system will search for vaccine misinformation and flag posts and links — including pictures and videos that appear in closed groups — that will then be reviewed by someone at the company.If the content is found to contain false claims about vaccines, then posts from the violating groups or pages will appear lower in a user’s news feed, the company said. But members of Facebook groups that promote anti-vaccination content will still see the posts on the group’s page. The company said it is working on ways to warn new or existing group members if a group has shared vaccine misinformation.Anti-vaccine groups will become “craftier” as moderation techniques develop, said Joan Donovan, the director of the Technology and Social Change Research Project at the Shorenstein Center at the Harvard Kennedy School.Sometimes anti-vaccine propaganda appears on old, abandoned Facebook accounts, for example. On Thursday afternoon, the Facebook page Occupy Philly showed two recent posts warning about the dangers of vaccination.Anti-vaccination groups can also harness search-engine optimization “by using very specific key words, especially the prescription names of some of these vaccines,” Dr. Donovan said, adding that anti-vaccination groups will also spread out into “momversation groups,” where parents gather online.Screen shots and other images containing written messages can also help posters hide from tech-based moderation, said Dr. Donovan, who researches disinformation and media manipulation.While Facebook said its artificial intelligence system can decipher text that has been added to photos, the company said it will not be targeting every single post about vaccines, and is focusing instead on specific claims about vaccines that have been disproved.The company is also aiming to crack down on advertising that includes misinformation about vaccinations. Such ads will be rejected, Facebook said, and the company may disable ad accounts that violate its policies. It has also removed certain vaccine-related targeting options like “vaccine controversies.”“I’m really pleased that they are recognizing the downstream impact of this kind of misinformation and taking the right steps to balance expression with the recognition that their curation and their suggestions do have an impact on the communities that people join,” said Renée DiResta, the co-founder of Vaccinate California and the director of research at a cybersecurity company. “I think that the decision to stop accepting ad dollars is the right call.”The World Health Organization identified “vaccine hesitancy” as one of this year’s 10 notable threats to global health. The decision to avoid vaccination can stem from many things: worries about side effects, cost, moral or religious objections, or a lack of knowledge about immunizations.As anti-vaccine groups have infiltrated social media, companies have been pressured to stem the tide of misinformation.Last year, Pinterest blocked results associated with certain vaccine-related searches and said last month that it was working with experts to develop a more tailored long-term approach.YouTube started surfacing more authoritative content in late 2017 for people searching for vaccination-related topics, and its policies prohibit anti-vaccine videos from showing ads. In India, the company has rolled out information panels that fact-check specific claims as another way of combating misinformation, YouTube said on Thursday. The company said the fact-check panels will expand to other countries this year.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe U.S. should not copy China’s command-and-control playbook. Markets are still best at driving economic growth.By Veronique de RugyMs. de Rugy is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University.China’s post-Mao economic boom has occurred only to the extent that the country became capitalist. With “Made in China 2025,” Beijing’s 2015 anticapitalist plan for an industrial policy under which the state would pick “winners,” China has taken a step back from capitalism. (It recently dropped the “Made in China 2025” name, though the policy remains.) It won’t work, but China’s new industrial policy has worked one marvel — namely, scaring many American conservatives into believing that the main driver of economic growth isn’t the market but bureaucrats invested with power to control the allocation of natural and financial resources.Exhibit A is a report just out from the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, headed by Marco Rubio of Florida, on how to counter Beijing’s plan.The report echoes widespread fears about China’s plan to use top-down, nonmarket means such as tariffs, subsidies and capital restrictions to pursue global dominance in 10 industrial sectors like clean-energy cars, robotics and aerospace. The Rubio report asserts that such dominance “would be an unacceptable outcome for American workers.”Mr. Rubio’s somewhat surprising response is to in effect call for the United States to adopt its own industrial policy. It would include prioritizing manufacturing, protecting American companies in industries China wants to make headway in, restrictions on investments and capital flows, tax changes that encourage United States tech companies to spend more on research and development rather than on buybacks, and support for small businesses.China’s economic growth and sheer size are something to reckon with. Yet that doesn’t mean that authoritarian methods will enable China to attain economic dominance. I thought we learned this lesson after many American intellectuals, economists and politicians were proven spectacularly wrong  in predicting that the Soviet Union would become an economic rival.State planning will darken China’s economic prospects. Its resources are limited, so any expansive government investment in one, two or 10 sectors of its economy diverts resources from other sectors, threatening their future growth.Free-market proponents usually understand that, plagued by ignorance of all-important localized knowledge, government officials cannot outperform the market at picking winners. In practice it ends up picking losers or hindering the abilities of the winners to achieve their greatest potential. Central planning is antithetical to innovation, as is already visible in China.You can give Senator Rubio some points for consistency: Believing that top-down government planning works in China, he now believes it also works in America. Still, the same obstacles that limit the carrying out of many government policies in the United States — for example, the initial failure to open and maintain the HealthCare.gov website — will ensure that many of Beijing’s plans will fail.But even if this time really is different and China becomes “the global leader in innovation and manufacturing,” it still doesn’t follow that the United States government should respond with more of its own interventions. First, the law of comparative advantage still holds and so it would continue to be beneficial for China to import products that are produced more efficiently elsewhere. Second, the United States has instituted industrial policies in the past out of unwarranted fears of other countries’ industrial policies. The results have always imposed great costs on consumers and taxpayers and introduced significant economic distortions.Conservatives — who take pride in their respect for history — should learn about the failed United States industrial policies of the 1980s, which were responses to the Japanese government’s attempt to dominate key consumer electronics technologies. These efforts worked neither in Japan nor in the United States.The past has taught us that industrial policies fail often because they favor existing industries that are well connected politically at the expense of would-be entrepreneurs and start-ups offering more innovative solutions.And so contrary to the Rubio report, we should not prioritize manufacturing, to cite one example. Yes, manufacturing generates the majority of export revenues in rich countries. But despite popular opinion, trade’s benefits are not measured by the amounts that are exported. As economists since Adam Smith have pointed out, the ultimate goal of trade is to receive as many imports as possible.Also, Mr. Rubio’s report errs in concluding that because manufacturing wages are high, policymakers should work to increase employment in manufacturing. Wages in manufacturing are high because labor-saving innovations have increased workers’ productivity and, thus, their wages. But any workers artificially shifted into manufacturing would be redundant — and being redundant, their productivity and their wages would be low.This doesn’t mean there’s no role for government. In fact, the Clinton years should have taught politicians that the most effective industrial policy is to clear and protect spaces for innovation, as was done in 1997 with the administration’s Framework for Global Electronic Commerce. This posture of “permissionless innovation” for digital commerce kick-started the development of the American-led commercial internet.The same lesson applies to the competition for 5G technology (mentioned only twice in the Rubio report). China might end up leading in 5G patents and hardware production. This possibility raises privacy concerns — for instance, that China would influence the worldwide convergence on 5G standards to aid it to spy on users. Still, it’s difficult to believe that the Chinese could impose an anti-privacy standard with so many privacy watchdogs at the table. If there are national security issues, they should be addressed with national security means, not economic policy.We shouldn’t allow fear-mongering to hobble America’s free enterprise system. That system has proved remarkable at delivering what consumers care about, like speed, broadband services and applications. The researcher Brent Skorup lays out many simple ways the government could encourage 5G development in the United States. For starters, Mr. Skorup notes, the federal government could free up underused parts of the federal radio spectrum for new uses like 5G. Then, the federal government should work with states and cities to repeal statutes that prohibit homeowners from freely installing 5G equipment on their own property (which would expand broadband access). Local officials should see the 5G rollout not as a mere revenue generator but as a national campaign for a more innovative and dynamic economy.China’s economic future is bright, but only as long as it rejects large-scale industrial policy and instead recommits to competitive markets. We shouldn’t copy its recent command-and-control playbook. Rather, we should stick with the time-honored policies that have made the United States the titan to topple in the first place: free trade, competitive markets, reasonable regulations and the rule of law. Maybe China will decide to mimic more of our behaviors instead.Veronique de Rugy is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySocial media platforms are effective in spreading falsehoods, but they can’t make the rules. By Brendan NyhanSocial media companies face increasing scrutiny for amplifying fringe anti-vaccine sentiment amid measles outbreaks in several states like Washington. In response, Facebook, YouTube and Pinterest recently made headlines by announcing initiatives to reduce vaccine misinformation on their platforms.But the focus on anti-vaccine content on social media can obscure the most important factor in whether children get vaccinated: the rules in their home states, which are being revisited in legislative debates across the country that have received far less attention.A teenager testified before Congress on Tuesday that he got vaccinated in defiance of his mother, who he said got her anti-vaccination views from social media. Although this kind of misinformation can endanger public health, it’s not obvious that social media is substantially increasing overall vaccine hesitancy. Despite rapid growth in the proportion of Americans using social media sites, flu vaccination rates and infant immunization levels have largely remained stable in recent years. Moreover, fears about and resistance to vaccination are not new; they date to the late 18th century, when the first vaccine was developed.Social media may simply provide a new pretext for hesitant parents who would otherwise cite a different reason for their decision. In other words, we may be mistakenly treating what is largely a symptom of vaccine hesitancy as its cause — an example of a recurring pattern in which we fault social media for causing problems that it is merely making more visible. (For instance, the internet and social media are often blamed for fueling political polarization, but the trend toward greater polarization long predates social media and is sharpest among older people, the group least likely to use new technology.)It seems reasonable to ask that social media companies avoid worsening the global problem of vaccine hesitancy. But a more immediate threat in the United States are the state policies that make it easy to avoid immunization requirements for children entering kindergarten. Emory University’s Saad B. Omer and his colleagues have found that broad philosophical and religious exemptions to vaccine requirements — a set of policies that expanded before the advent of social media — are associated with substantially higher rates of unvaccinated children. They found this was particularly true during the 2005-2006 to 2010-2011 period, when exemptions grew fastest in these states.Reversing such policies can increase vaccination rates. After a measles outbreak originating in Disneyland, for instance, California eliminated nonmedical exemptions from vaccination requirements for kindergarten entry and tightened compliance requirements. Although the process provoked controversy and required a bill to be passed along partisan lines (a risky approach), vaccination levels increased afterward — a public health success. For this reason, the American Academy of Pediatrics supports eliminating all nonmedical exemptions.Debates over these issues are taking place now in a number of states. Most center on proposals that would restrict or eliminate nonmedical exemptions (as in Washington). But outside of the national spotlight, some states are considering proposals to expand exemptions or are elevating fringe views. The Arizona legislature, for instance, passed a bill creating a religious exemption to vaccination mandates (though almost no religions oppose vaccines), with one lawmaker calling such requirements “Communist.”Similarly, a state legislator in Texas who supports a pending bill making exemptions easier to obtain said people weren’t dying of measles in America because of “antibiotics and that kind of stuff.”Such misinformation can have a great deal of influence on public health when it has the force of law behind it — far more than social media alone.Brendan Nyhan is a professor of public policy at the Ford School at the University of Michigan. Follow him on Twitter at @BrendanNyhan.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe president will need to start listening to health experts if he’s going to eradicate the virus in the country.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.The H.I.V. outbreak in Scott County, Ind., which began in late 2014 and ultimately resulted in some 200 new infections, was almost entirely avoidable. As far back as 2008, health officials had advised the state to implement needle exchange programs in light of growing injection drug use. Those calls went unheeded. By 2011, it was clear that an H.I.V. outbreak was brewing in the region, but elected officials did not change course. Nor did they take other basic steps — like expanding access to evidence-based treatment programs for opioid use disorder, or increasing government funding for H.I.V. testing — that might have brought the problem under control.Then, in 2013, state budget cuts forced the region’s lone H.I.V. testing provider (a Planned Parenthood clinic) to close its doors. By early 2015, scores of residents were newly infected with the virus, and even the local sheriff was pushing the state to lift its ban on needle exchange programs. Mike Pence, then Indiana’s governor, balked. Despite scientific consensus to the contrary, Mr. Pence worried that such a program would only encourage more injection drug use.By the time the governor finally relented, federal health officials were estimating that more than 100 people in Scott County had already been infected with the virus. Mr. Pence’s response was tepid: He signed a bill temporarily allowing needle exchanges in the outbreak’s epicenter, but he provided no state funding for that program and made the requirements for participation strict and burdensome. For good measure, he also upgraded needle possession without a prescription from a misdemeanor to a felony.According to a study published in September in the scientific journal The Lancet H.I.V., nearly all of the 215 H.I.V. infections that resulted from the outbreak could have been prevented —  if the state’s elected officials had more quickly heeded the advice of public health experts.Mr. Pence’s slow, own-foot-shooting response to the H.I.V. crisis in his home state bears many lessons for his current boss, President Trump, who recently announced a plan to eradicate H.I.V. in the United States by 2030.Mr. Trump’s plan has some promising features. Developed by career civil servants with decades of experience combating H.I.V., it would provide the first new funding for the domestic fight against this disease in many years. And it would deploy a majority of those dollars to communities where the virus is most prevalent and resources most urgently needed.But as The Times reported this week, the president’s proposed budget for the initiative — $291 million for the first year — falls far short of what’s needed to reach the stated goal. And like Mr. Pence’s efforts in Indiana, many of the Trump administration’s other policies stand to undermine this initiative. Roughly one million Americans live with H.I.V. today; one million more are at risk of contracting it. A vast majority of those who are infected live in marginalized communities, and 15 percent of them have not been diagnosed. Conquering the disease will require making health care as widely accessible as possible. But the same budget proposal that would offer new money for fighting H.I.V. seeks to cut funds for Medicaid, a program that health officials say is a bedrock for people living with the virus. (It’s no surprise that the region of the country with the highest H.I.V. burden — the South — also has the lowest participation in Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care Act.)Stopping the infection from spreading — as it still does to some 40,000 previously uninfected Americans each year — will require evidence-based sex education and a large, concerted effort to test everyone who is at risk of contracting the virus. But the administration has worked aggressively to undermine Planned Parenthood, one of the few organizations to provide easily accessible H.I.V. testing in low-income communities around the country. And the Department of Health and Human Services has pushed abstinence-only programs that experts say severely undermine disease-prevention efforts.Nudging those who are infected into treatment, and helping them stay the course, will require active campaigns to help remove the stigma, shame and fear of a diagnosis. Instead, the Trump administration has repeatedly supported or enacted policies that result in further marginalization of L.G.B.T.Q. communities, which still suffer a disproportionate burden of H.I.V. infection. To eliminate H.I.V., the cost of medications capable of treating and preventing the disease will have to be sharply reduced (they currently cost tens of thousands of dollars a year per person). But so far, the administration has shown no appetite for using existing laws to override the patents of these drugs and produce them at cost — a move that may offer the best chance of getting these lifesaving medications to the two million or so people who need them.More than two decades have passed since scientists first developed these medications. The latest plan might enable the United States to finally realize their full potential, but only if elected officials resolve the incongruities in their own policies. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — Apple responded on Friday to antitrust claims made by the music streaming service Spotify, saying its policies are fair and accusing its rival of being motivated by a need to bolster financial results.Spotify filed a complaint with European regulators this week, accusing Apple of using its App Store to undercut companies that compete with its own services, like Apple Music.In a statement published on its website, Apple said that Spotify was not treated any differently from the millions of other developers that use the App Store.Apple accused Spotify of trying to use the advantages of the App Store, which provides access to millions of Apple users, without having to pay fees that Apple says are necessary to keep the marketplace thriving. Apple charges a fee of up to 30 percent for anything sold through the App Store.“Spotify is asking to keep all those benefits while also retaining 100 percent of the revenue,” Apple said. “Spotify wouldn’t be the business they are today without the App Store ecosystem, but now they’re leveraging their scale to avoid contributing to maintaining that ecosystem for the next generation of app entrepreneurs.”The dispute highlights a larger debate about the role of large tech platforms like Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Google, and whether their size and power impede competition. Amazon is the subject of a European antitrust investigation related to its treatment of independent sellers on its marketplace. Google was fined by the European Commission last year for antitrust violations stemming from its Android operating system.“When the company that runs a platform also competes with businesses that depend on that platform, we face the risk that it could use its power to drive out competition in not one market but dozens,” Margrethe Vestager, Europe’s antitrust chief, said in a speech this week.Apple said the App Store had created millions of jobs and generated more than $120 billion for developers since its introduction in 2008. It ushered in a new era of mobile computing, allowing companies like Instagram, Uber and others to reach users.Spotify’s app has been downloaded more than 300 million times, according to Apple.“The App Store is a safe, secure platform where users can have faith in the apps they discover and the transactions they make,” Apple said. “And developers, from first-time engineers to larger companies, can rest assured that everyone is playing by the same set of rules.”AdvertisementChina DailyAdvertisementShareAn online survey by 26 global media outlets discovers top China-related issues among global internet users.The news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post’s creation.AdvertisementSupported bySo far, no Democratic candidate is claiming to be ready.By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistAs the 2020 campaign gets underway, we’ve heard about a Green New Deal, Medicare for all, breaking up Amazon and universal basic income — to name but a few of the ideas raised by Democratic presidential hopefuls. But one issue has been largely absent: foreign policy — the potential use of force, great-power competition and the management of alliances that will be more important during the next presidency than it has been in three decades.Maybe I missed it, but I haven’t heard any of the Democrats running on the argument that he or she is the best person to answer the White House crisis line at 3 in the morning. They all seem inclined to let that call go to voice mail. I hope that doesn’t last, because that phone will be ringing. This will be an extraordinarily volatile and confusing time for U.S. foreign policy.We’re in the post-post-Cold War era — an era when being secretary of state, let alone president, has become a terrible job. (If anyone asks you to become secretary of state, say you had your heart set on secretary of agriculture.) The post-Cold War era had its issues — 9/11, Iraq and Afghanistan, to be sure — but it was in many ways a unipolar belle epoque, in which an American hegemon stifled any serious great-power conflict.The post-post-Cold War era, which has been slowly unfolding since the early 2000s, requires a president to manage and juggle three huge geopolitical trends — and the interactions between them — all at once.The first is the resurgence of three big regional powers: Russia, China and Iran. Each is seeking to dominate its home region and is willing to use force for that purpose. This trend is compellingly described in a new book by Michael Mandelbaum, the Johns Hopkins emeritus professor of U.S. foreign policy, titled “The Rise and Fall of Peace on Earth.”As Mandelbuam notes, in Europe, Russia has occupied part of Ukraine. In East Asia, China has claimed most of the Western Pacific as its own territory, contrary to international law; has built artificial islands there; and has placed military installations on them. In the Middle East, Iran has trained and funded proxy forces in Lebanon, Syria, Iraq and Yemen and has pursued nuclear weapons.“The three have an important motive in common: All are dictatorships trying to generate support among those they rule through aggressive nationalism, at the expense of their neighbors,” Mandelbaum (with whom I co-wrote a book in 2011) remarked to me. “The combination of their insecurities and their ambitions has revived political and military competition among the strongest countries in the world. Indeed, the world of 2019 more closely resembles the world of the Cold War than of the 25 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall.”If this first trend requires a president who can manage strength — ours and that of Russia, China and Iran — the second trend will require a deft touch at managing weakness. We are going to see more and more weak states — like Venezuela, Libya, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and many in sub-Saharan Africa — either fall apart or hemorrhage lots of their people, because they are unable to manage the stresses from climate change, population explosion, ecosystem breakdowns and the rapid accelerations in globalization and technology.If you think managing strength is hard, try managing weakness — try attempting to put broken countries back together. It’s hell on wheels. But that will be a big challenge for the next president because the mass migrations of people away from these disorderly and failing states to zones of order, which is what is driving the current U.S. and European border crises, are not going away.Consider this Washington Post report last week: “The number of people taken into custody along the Mexico border jumped an additional 31 percent last month as an unprecedented mass migration of families from Central America pushes unauthorized crossings to the highest levels in a decade, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection figures.” The story added that last month, the busiest February at the border since 2007, authorities detained 76,103 migrants, up from 58,207 in January, and it quoted Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Kevin McAleenan as saying: “The system is well beyond capacity and remains at a breaking point.”For the third trend, the next president will have to manage not only rival superpowers and disorder but also super-empowered small groups and individuals, because of how technology acceleration is putting incredibly powerful, cheap, small tools — for cyberwarfare, election hacking and financial hacking — into the hands of small units, vastly expanding their attack surfaces.These cyber tools are all getting fast, cheap and deep. That is, they can go deeper inside your company, your email, your election, your power grid or your bank account — every single day. This makes them easier to be weaponized by small units (like North Korea) and individuals so they can have outsize impacts through deep fake, deep surveillance, deep cyber theft.Which brings us back to the thesis of “The Rise and Fall of Peace on Earth.” The resurgent competition between us, China, Russia and Iran means that instead of our having their cooperation “to try to manage state failure and the technological tsunami, the three revisionists are making them worse,” Mandelbaum told me. “Russia and Iran took the lead in devastating Syria, producing a flood of refugees that has, among other things, destabilized Europe. And all three have weaponized the new technology, hacking the U.S. and Europe and, in the case of Russia, even interfering with an American election.”This means there will be even more pressure on the next president to find allies and build alliances to maintain order. Only the U.S. has the ability to organize coalitions to deter Russia, China and Iran, Mandelbaum argues. Only the U.S. has the resources and the experience to lead a global effort to try to cope with state failure. “And since much of the new technology was invented and applied here, the U.S. is in the best position to figure out how to cope with it.”Among President Trump’s greatest foreign policy weaknesses is his inability to build and maintain alliances. Few other countries want to follow him into battle. The winner of the 2020 election, whether Trump or someone else, is going to pay for the way Trump has allowed our traditional alliances to wither and has made the U.S. administration (not people) so unpopular with populations from Canada to Mexico to Europe to Asia to the Middle East that many of their leaders do not feel comfortable standing with our president, even if they are so inclined.That is not Trump’s only poisoned legacy. The other is that he shows no interest in democracy promotion, and that, too, is more important than ever, because democracies are much less prone to war. But we’re in a democracy recession now. Leaders from China to Egypt to Uganda to Turkey are all making themselves presidents for life.“The principal disturbers of the peace — Russia, China, and Iran — are all dictatorships that seek popular support, can no longer get it through economic growth, don’t have the option of getting it through democracy, and in fact fear that democratic demands and democratic forces will unseat them,” Mandelbaum said. “Their aggressive policies are designed to protect their regimes against, most of all, democracy.”So hold onto your hats: Great-power conflict is in, but U.S. democracy promotion is out. We need allies more than ever, and we have fewer than ever. And some guy in Moldova with a cellphone and a few cyber tools can now shut off the power grid in Montana.No wonder no one wants to boast being the best person to answer the White House crisis line at 3 a.m. They all prefer to let it ring and hope that it’s a wrong number.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesA prominent Vietnamese historian who criticized his government for not doing more to challenge Beijing’s territorial claims in the South China Sea has been ousted from Vietnam’s ruling Communist Party over comments he made on Facebook.The political purge of Tran Duc Anh Son, an expert on Vietnam’s claims in the South China Sea, is a rare window into how the party handles dissent among its rank-and-file members. It may also underline the sensitivities around Vietnam’s handling of its relationship with China, its largest trading partner and former imperial occupier.Vietnam’s state-run news media reported last week that Dr. Son, who is in his early 50s and worked for years at a state-run research institute in the central city of Danang, was expelled for posting false information and violating a code that governs party members’ behavior.“I knew this day would come,” Dr. Son said in an interview over a messaging service. He closed his Facebook account this week, saying he needed more time to work on book projects and transition to a new job as the director of a publishing house.Dr. Son said the Facebook comment that got him in the most trouble was a short question he posed last September under a cartoon that obliquely criticized the government.A character in the cartoon said: “Seventy-three years ago they corralled people to a rally to listen to the Declaration of Independence. Seventy-three years later they forbid people to gather to celebrate Independence Day.”That was an apparent reference to a famous 1945 speech by Ho Chi Minh in which the future Vietnamese president declared his country’s independence from France, and an oblique criticism of the Communist Party’s current leaders, who have escalated repression of political dissidents.Dr. Son said the question he wrote underneath the cartoon — “Is this true?” — prompted a monthslong investigation by Danang’s Communist Party Central Committee.He said he was also investigated for a Facebook comment — “How have things become this bad?” — that he left under a post featuring two articles in the state-run news media about the country’s education minister.Even though many Vietnamese have low opinions of the Communist Party, its members generally avoid criticizing it for fear of repercussions that would affect their livelihoods, said Mai Thanh Son, a senior researcher at the state-affiliated Institute of Social Sciences in central Vietnam.“The expulsion of Tran Duc Anh Son is a thoughtless decision,” he said. “It’s like releasing a tiger into the forest, and it contributes to stripping away the cowardly face of the ruling apparatus that the party represents.”In January, a cybersecurity law took effect in Vietnam that requires technology companies with users there to set up offices and store data in the country, and disclose user data to the authorities without a court order. Human rights advocates say Vietnam’s new cybersecurity law was meant to let the government better surveil its critics on Facebook, the country’s most popular social media platform.Facebook declined to comment on the record about Dr. Son’s account.The Foreign Ministry did not respond to emailed questions about Dr. Son’s expulsion from the party, including whether his criticism of Vietnam’s South China Sea policies had played a role.Vietnam has clashed repeatedly at sea with China, which claims most of the waterway as its own. Notably, in 2014 a state-owned Chinese oil company towed an oil rig to waters near Danang, provoking a tense maritime standoff and anti-Chinese riots at several Vietnamese industrial parks. The Communist Party likely fears a repeat of such anti-China-fueled Vietnamese nationalism, partly because some critics question why the government does not take a harder line against Beijing.Chinese officials and scholars seek to justify Beijing’s claim to sovereignty over South China Sea waters that encircle the disputed Paracel and Spratly archipelagos by citing maps and other evidence from the 1940s and ’50s.But Dr. Son and other Vietnamese historians argue that the Nguyen dynasty, which ruled present-day Vietnam from 1802 to 1945, wielded clear administrative control over the Paracels, decades before imperial or post-revolutionary China showed any interest in them.Dr. Son is a former director of a fine arts museum in Hue, Vietnam’s imperial capital, and a specialist in Nguyen-era porcelain. He developed an interest in Vietnam’s territorial claims as a student poking around archives of old maps and documents.In 2009, officials in Danang asked him to pursue his research on Vietnam’s maritime claims on the government’s behalf. He subsequently spent years traveling the world in search of material, including as a Fulbright scholar at Yale University.Dr. Son has said the historical evidence of Vietnam’s maritime claims is so irrefutable that the government should mount a legal challenge to China’s activities in waters around some of the sea’s disputed islands, as the Philippines successfully did in a case that ended in 2016.“I’m always against the Chinese,” he told The New York Times during an interview in 2017. But he said at the time that Vietnam’s top leaders were “slaves” to Beijing who preferred to keep the old maps and other documents hidden.“They always say to me, ‘Mr. Son, please keep calm,’” he said. “‘Don’t talk badly about China.’”The city of Danang, where Dr. Son lives and works, once had a reputation for its powerful, family-based networks that were willing to ignore dictates from the central government, said Bill Hayton, an author of books about Vietnam and the South China Sea and an associate fellow at Chatham House, a research institute based in London.But Mr. Hayton noted that Vietnam’s current leadership, led by the Communist Party’s general secretary, Nguyen Phu Trong, has lately disciplined some key Danang political figures, including firing Nguyen Xuan Anh, the head of the city’s Communist Party Central Committee.Even though Danang officials presumably supported and financed Dr. Son’s research, he added, “the current Vietnamese leadership does not want to rock the boat with Beijing and seems determined to keep a lid on criticism of China’s actions in the South China Sea.”Chau Doan contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zolan Kanno-YoungsWASHINGTON — In announcing the United States’ annual list of the world’s worst human rights violations, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo this past week singled out South Sudan and Nicaragua for government-sanctioned atrocities against their own people.Over the past year in South Sudan, Mr. Pompeo said, “military forces waged sexual violence against civilians based on their political allegiances and their ethnicity.” In Nicaragua, he said “when citizens peacefully protested Social Security benefits, they were met with sniper fire.”But the Department of Homeland Security has sought to limit the number of immigrants who left South Sudan or Nicaragua for safety, seeking to temporarily live and work legally in the United States.The apparent contradiction shows the Trump administration’s competing priorities and how they affect foreigners facing government corruption and violence.Even as homeland security has sought to tighten American borders and strictly enforce immigration laws, the State Department is highlighting some of the very systematic abuses that have sent people fleeing to the United States.That “perfectly illustrates the unfairness inherent in this administration’s approach to temporary protected status,” said Ahilan Arulanantham, the senior counsel at the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, referring to a program that gives immigrants short-term residency. He is representing plaintiffs in a lawsuit against the administration’s efforts to pull those protections from immigrants.Homeland security officials defended its approach to limit — and in many cases revoke — temporary protected status on a country by country basis.The policy, first enacted in 1990, allowed people from countries suffering from war, natural disasters, epidemic or “extraordinary and temporary conditions” to live and work in the United States until their homelands stabilized. The Trump administration has sought to restrict it, saying the protections have allowed immigrants to gain long-term residency.One homeland security official said the policy was never intended to give permanent relief to immigrants, who could otherwise apply for refugee grants or benefit from American political pressure or direct intervention on their home countries. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss a policy that is being challenged in court.An estimated 2,500 Nicaraguans are living in the United States under temporary protected status and have been ordered to leave, adjust their immigration status or face deportation. They have been given a reprieve as a federal court in California considers their case, along with immigrants from El Salvador, Haiti, Sudan, Honduras and Nepal who are also challenging the administration’s deportation order, which they say is racially motivated.Temporary protected status was first opened to Nicaraguans in 1999 after the devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch, and extended for years afterward. As part of its decision to withdraw the protections, homeland security officials concluded that conditions are now safe enough in Nicaragua for the immigrants to return.The State Department report, however, found that clashes in Nicaragua that began last April between the police and protesters have so far killed 325 people and injured 2,000 more. Hundreds have been illegally detained and tortured, and more than 52,000 exiled, the report found. Some of those who were detained were raped by government officials; lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender as well as indigenous people were attacked.“Human rights deteriorated markedly during the year,” the report on Nicaragua concluded.The disparity between the two agencies’ assessments of South Sudan is slightly blurrier.This past week, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, approved a limited extension for immigrants from South Sudan, allowing those who were already in the United States before January 2016 to remain for another 18 months. It was the second time since temporary protected status, commonly referred to as T.P.S., was granted to South Sudan in 2011 that the United States limited its extension to only some of the immigrants. (The first, more limited extension of the temporary protections was granted to the country in 2017.)Ms. Nielsen “determined the ongoing armed conflict and extraordinary and temporary conditions that support South Sudan’s current designation for T.P.S. continue to exist,” the Department of Homeland Security said in a statement.But the protections did not extend to those from South Sudan who came to the United States after January 2016. Warring factions in South Sudan reached what the United Nations has described as a fragile peace agreement in 2018, after five years of ethnic violence in South Sudan.That has infuriated pro-immigration advocates who said hundreds of immigrants who had hoped to win temporary legal residency, and are already in the United States, now face imminent deportation to South Sudan.“While the warring parties were able to come to a peace agreement, many people are still being displaced from their homes due to fighting and insecurity and there is substantial work to be done to address the longtime suffering of the South Sudanese people,” said Martin Omukuba, who oversees South Sudan policy at the International Rescue Committee, a humanitarian aid group.The State Department described a range of atrocities in South Sudan throughout 2018 — many at the hands of government officials or security forces.They included “rape and gang rape employed as a weapon of war, arbitrary detention and torture, enforced disappearances, explosive remnants of war, forced displacement, the mass destruction of homes and personal property, widespread looting, and use of child soldiers,” the department’s report found.At least 382,000 people have been killed in the conflict in South Sudan, according to the report, which cited figures from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.There is a history of tension between the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security over ending or otherwise limiting temporary protected status for immigrants.In a 2017 email exchange obtained by the A.C.L.U., a senior diplomat raised concerns over how homeland security officials would announce the end of the protections for immigrants from Sudan.The diplomat, Paul Sutphin, then a senior adviser for the State Department focusing on Sudan and South Sudan, wrote that language about the policy that was being prepared for publication in the Federal Register might encourage “the Sudanese government to take actions that could exacerbate the ongoing armed conflicts in South Sudan.”Mr. Sutphin said the Sudanese government could view the language as a “green light” to force displaced people to “deadly conflict-affected areas” and pushed homeland security officials to make clear that there was still an internal conflict in South Sudan.Asked for comment, Mr. Sutphin said in an email, “State and D.H.S. did not agree on whether the situation on the ground in Sudan merited ending T.P.S.”In a subsequent email, another State Department official said diplomats were caught off guard by the Department of Homeland Security’s announcement in September 2017 that it would end temporary protected status for immigrants from Sudan.The State Department report released last week found that in Sudan last year, “human rights issues included unlawful or arbitrary killings, forced disappearance, torture and arbitrary detention.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sopan DebShaunie Begley and Christine Bottross stood Tuesday on the steps outside the Vessel, the sprawling, ovalish 150-foot-high steel structure connected to the recently opened Hudson Yards on Manhattan’s West Side.Ms. Begley posed for a picture as Ms. Bottross snapped away on her camera. She posed again. Another picture. And again, with a slightly different hand gesture this time. On and on this went for several minutes.Both called themselves “Instagrammers,” and their carefully curated photos were destined to be consumed by the nearly 90,000 followers they have between them.And, possibly, by one very big real estate development.Questions over who controls a person’s social-media content soaked the Vessel in an internet rainstorm this week after the website Gothamist reported on a curious and, some legal experts said, aggressive assertion of copyright by Hudson Yards, the Vessel’s owner.In its terms of service, which are not posted on the property but are available online, Hudson Yards said that it had the right to use any picture taken in the vicinity of the art installation for commercial purposes, with no royalty fees and no restrictions, forever.Or, in legal speak, by posting your Vessel selfie on Twitter you were giving the company “the irrevocable, unrestricted, worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free, sublicensable, and transferable right and license to use, display, reproduce, perform, modify, transmit, publish and distribute such photographs, audio recordings or video footage for any purpose whatsoever in any and all media (in either case, now known or developed later).”You also “further authorize Company to store such images on a database and transfer such images to third parties in conjunction with security and marketing procedures undertaken by the Vessel.”It is not unusual for a privately-owned attraction to use visitors’ photos in its own promotions. But Domenic Romano, a New York lawyer specializing in entertainment law, said that Hudson Yards wasn’t “just asking for the right to use the photos or reshare them on their own social media channels.”“They were basically claiming ownership over the underlying materials,” he said.After much social media derision that was not likely to become part of any Hudson Yards marketing, the development said on Monday it would be “refining the language to be more clear.”And it did. Now visitors “retain ownership of any photographs, text, audio recordings or video footage depicting or relating to the Vessel” that they create.But if you want to send that photo out to your Instagram fans, you still “hereby grant to Company and its affiliates the right to repost, share, publish, promote and distribute the Vessel Media via such social media channel and via websites associated with the Vessel or Hudson Yards (including my name, voice and likeness and any other aspects of my persona as depicted in the Vessel Media), in perpetuity.”It was a slight tweak — but one that was more similar to what most museums and other public venues currently have, according to Mr. Romano.“It’s the difference between use and owning the underlying right exclusively,” Mr. Romano said.In a statement on Tuesday, a spokeswoman for Hudson Yards said: “As we are a new destination, we wanted to over communicate, be transparent and disclose to all users that we may reshare select social posts on our social channels and website that visitors have already shared publicly on their social channels. This is a process undertaken at major attractions around the city and country.”Ms. Bottross, taking a quick break from instructing Ms. Begley on how to pose, said she was not aware of the hubbub over what control Hudson Yards had or did not have over photos they would share online.“But sure, they can use it,” Ms. Bottross said of her photos.Ms. Begley said she had no problem, either — and hoped the developer would direct people to where the photos came from. “Can they @ me?” she said, laughing.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe advent of Beto O’Rourke’s presidential candidacy has Democrats arguing ferociously among themselves.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.Within days of his announcement that he was running for the Democratic presidential nomination, Beto O’Rourke shot up in the rankings in terms of money, media coverage and Google searches. Then the knives came out — progressives, women, African-Americans and party loyalists all took a stab at him.The response to Beto is polarizing the Democratic activist community. The overriding question for Democrats is electability: who can beat Trump is a matter of pressing concern and profound anxiety for at least half the nation. The wrong choice would be disastrous.Let’s start with O’Rourke’s negatives and we’ll get to the positives later.“I’ve been quite critical of O’Rourke because I don’t really think the 2020 race needs him. We already have a pretty good bench of Democrats, and they mostly have thought far more about policy and politics than O’Rourke has,” Sean McElwee, a co-founder of Data for Progress, whose views represent those of many on the outspoken left, told me:I think he’s vulnerable because of his gaffes and vague policies, but I think he’s most weak due to his pretty pro-development tenure on the El Paso City Council.McElwee contended that O’Rourke isno more electable than Kamala Harris or Elizabeth Warren and would be far less prepared to staff and run a White House. He’s never shown a commitment to progressive policies in the past, why should we trust him now? We don’t need a superstar, we need someone ready to push all-out to implement the progressive agenda.Gina Glantz, a co-founder of GenderAvenger, an organization determined to ensure “women are represented in the public dialogue,” replied to my inquiry about O’Rourke:I must admit after a few days of watching and reading about his opening gatherings I am less rather than more intrigued. To me, he exudes a sense of entitlement, which I find off-putting.How about O’Rourke and the white working class?Paul A. Sracic, a political scientist as Youngstown State University, emailed me:O’Rourke’s vague, “We all need to come together” message will not resonate with people who see life as a battle. Working class voters believe in pugilistic politics. And I suspect that O’Rourke’s punk rock background will seem odd to working class voters. These voters want to feel as if their candidates are “one of them.”Negative coverage in the press has been abundant:“The Unbearable Male Privilege of Beto O’Rourke" (The Daily Beast). He voted for Republican legislation (The Wall Street Journal). He put his adolescent fantasies into print (The Resurgent). He’s a wealthy dilettante (The National Review), an empty shell (The New Republic), a teenage hacker (USA Today), a master class in male entitlement (The Guardian).At the same time, O’Rourke has captured the imagination of millions of voters and donors.Frank Wilkinson, a former colleague of mine, wrote at Bloomberg:O’Rourke is not the only candidate modeling decency as an antidote to Trumpism. But he’s the one who has best harnessed the anxiety and rage generated by Trumpism’s assaults on democratic values and transformed them into willful, defiant optimism.Don Fowler, former chair of the Democratic National Committee, captures this feeling: “He clearly possesses a charismatic charge, a spark that few others have.” Still, Fowler goes on to enumerate O’Rourke’s liabilities:His impressive campaign for the Senate in Texas was a combination of luck and a damaged opponent. His ability to conduct an effective national campaign is totally unknown. His recent tour of the country was essentially by himself — a very poor way to test a candidate’s national potential in a crowded, competitive field. As to issues, the same unknown quality of his organizational potential characterizes his policy and ideological stances. Both major prongs of a national campaign are truly unknown and must be tested in the public crucible. Only time will tell on both policy and operational scores — wait and see.A Texas Democratic operative lavished praise on Beto, on background, in order to speak freely:O’Rourke has an intangible energy that goes beyond the litmus test. On a national scale that could be monumental. It’s emotional. It’s not tangible. Beto tapped into something with nontraditional voters. People who never publicly supported a campaign were putting Beto signs in their yard. LeBron James wore his logo on a hat.“I first saw the momentum in late spring 2018,” reports the Republican strategist Scott Reed:I live in Dallas and saw the yard signs popping up, all in front of large homes and mansions that would traditionally have been straight G.O.P. It almost became a badge of courage for many of the limousine liberals in Dallas.Reed, who ran Bob Dole’s 1996 presidential campaign, went on:His Willie Nelson event in Austin drew 50k folks and was also a strong signal to young voters — even though very few voted. His performances in the debates was exceptional and added to his momentum. Cruz was the #1 G.O.P. fund-raiser and he got swamped every quarter. I see a little Bobby Kennedy in him.Richard Murray, a political scientist at the University of Houston, was also impressed. He emailed:His appeal in Texas is a combination of an attractive persona with animated mannerisms that come across as cool and authentic to many (especially those under 35); boundless energy plus exceptional verbal skills that enable him to weave stories from folks he’s encountered on the campaign trail into compelling narratives (a rare skill) — displayed in an environment where voters in our very diverse and fast growing metropolitan areas have soured on the far right turn of Texas GOP leaders like Ted Cruz and Dan Patrick.How about a national campaign?Will this combination work in a national primary featuring the most diverse set of competitors in the nation’s history? I do not know, nor does anyone else. But the retail politics states of Iowa and New Hampshire are great places to test his road show outside the Lone Star State.Murray’s son, Keir Murray, a Democratic political consultant in Texas, added more praise:My own sense is his appeal was based, in part, on being a natural foil to Cruz (who is pretty much loathed by all but true conservatives in Texas) and by extension to Trump. O’Rourke is self-effacing, low-key guy, who comes across as fundamentally decent. I don’t think most Democrats, liberals or everyday Texans knew much about his policy positions, or cared much. They liked him. People sensed he was being himself — not perfect, not having all the answers — but honest and good-hearted.Robert Stein, a political scientist at Rice, is upbeat on O’Rourke’s prospects. He wrote me:Shortly after the November election progressives hit him hard for not backing their issue positions on guns and energy. My sense is that he is looking to avoid being defined on a left/right dimension/continuum. It seems like he is trying to define his candidacy as humane, pragmatic and capable of beating Trump.Stein argues thathe is sufficiently retail for places like Iowa and New Hampshire and if he can survive the rush before Super Tuesday, he should come out of the March primaries in the upper echelon of remaining candidates.Although O’Rourke lost the Texas Senate race to Cruz by just under 3 percent, exit polls show that he won among women, 54-46; among voters under 45, 59-40; minorities, 69-31; college graduates, 51-48; moderates, 65-34; and voters who say they are not white born-again or evangelical Christians, 61-38.While suffering from some hostile media impressions, O’Rourke has gotten his share, if not more so, of favorable press:He’s authentic, full of energy, and stripped of consultant-driven sterility (Vanity Fair). Will Beto O’Rourke Become President? (Texas Monthly). Beto O’Rourke Rivals Trump on Social Media (Newsweek). Beto O’Rourke could lead a blue wave in Texas (Vox). Beto O’Rourke blows up the 2020 Democratic primary (Politico).At the same time, some of the strongest opposition to O’Rourke — reflecting schisms within the Democratic Party — has come from women’s rights advocates, many of whom took offense at a comment he made to Vanity Fair: “Man, I’m just born to be in it.”Natasha Korecki, a Politico reporter, captured the feminist opposition to O’Rourke in her March 15 story, “‘Not one woman got that kind of coverage’: Beto backlash begins.”Korecki wrote:The breathless, sweeps-like cable television coverage that greeted the former Texas congressman’s first campaign events stunned and frustrated many Democratic operatives — particularly women — who viewed it as an example of the double standard at work in the historically diverse presidential field. To them, O’Rourke, a white, male candidate had already been anointed the next sensation, his entry into the race greased by live television shots and O’Rourke-centric panels.Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster, told Politico, “I think if you look at the pattern, there is a real distinction between the way men were covered and the way the women were covered. There’s a huge double standard,” before adding:With women, many, many more negatives were raised and the men were treated like the Second Coming. I’m surprised that this is continuing in 2019, after the year of the woman.In response to the animosity, O’Rourke indicated that he would pick a woman as his vice-presidential running mate. On March 15, he told reporters: “It would be very difficult not to select a woman with so many extraordinary women who are running right now.”O’Rourke appears to be acutely sensitive to this issue. He told Vanity Fair, before he announced his bid, that “the government at all levels is overly represented by white men,” and he didn’t leave it there:That’s part of the problem, and I’m a white man. So if I were to run, I think it’s just so important that those who would comprise my team looked like this country. If I were to run, if I were to win, that my administration looks like this country. It’s the only way I know to meet that challenge.It’s not altogether clear, however, that women currently seeking the top job would be thrilled by O’Rourke’s offer of the number two spot.Washington political professionals are also going to be a hard sell.John Lawrence, former chief of staff for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, questions whether O’Rourke is up to the challenge. Lawrence says he finds it difficultto see a white male emerging from the multicandidate pack. True, all the women/minorities could divide up the other voters, but with proportionate allocation of delegates, it’s hard to see a white male moderate emerging with a majority.“Freshness only goes so far,” Lawrence pointed out:After a year of being beat up by competitors, the press, Trump, grass roots, etc., he might not look or sound so “fresh.” He strikes me as somewhat superficial, very much a personality; I am not convinced the act sells on a national basis.Isaac Hale, a political scientist at the University of California, notes thatBeto doesn’t have the luxury of running in the Democratic presidential primary as “not Ted Cruz.” which is certainly a large part of what endeared him to Democratic voters around the country in 2018.O’Rourke, Hale observes, “is something of a blank slate that voters and party elites can project their own policy preferences onto,” a characteristic that can work to his advantage or disadvantage.Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at U.C.L.A., looked at the same issue from a different angle:The ways these races get framed depends a lot on who the candidates are and what their constraints are — if O’Rourke finds himself in a race against another young white male who is inspiring, these things won’t be a strength of his; but if he finds himself running against an older person who isn’t inspiring, they could be.Vavreck added:Your constraints are only constraints if your opponent doesn’t share them; and your strengths are only strengths if your opponent doesn’t share them. When there are 16 people vying for the nomination you have to winnow the field to be able to talk sensibly about who has advantages beyond just fund-raising and organization. Are there no other candidates who have “capacity to inspire,” “policy centrism”?In the current contest, Vavreck declared, “There are. This makes me think that these may not be unique strengths of this candidate!”Suzanne Model, a sociologist at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst who has written extensively on race and immigration, argues that O’Rourke faces an uphill battle for the nomination:O’Rourke will do well in the primaries but it is unlikely that he will win. Young, handsome and self-effacing, his charismatic manner will appeal to “non-policy wonks.” This includes traditionally-oriented women, young adults, and political moderates. In addition, his recent pro-immigrant stance, Hispanic sounding name and Texas roots should garner him support among Latinos.But, Model continued,O’Rourke’s problem is that he has little appeal to left-leaning voters or African-Americans. They watched the G.O.P. destroy a Democratic president who expressed a willingness to work with Republicans; hence, they seek a candidate who is more experienced, sophisticated and aggressive.In order to beat Trump, Model contends,The Democratic standard-bearer must carry a significant proportion of two constituencies: African Americans and working class white males. Under an O’Rourke candidacy, too many African Americans will stay home and too many working class white males will vote for Trump. Perhaps no Democratic candidate is capable of succeeding simultaneously with these two heterogeneous groups, but that is the most plausible route to a Trump defeat.Which brings us back to the existential question I raised at the beginning of this column: Can Beto O’Rourke beat Donald Trump?O’Rourke’s fund-raising success will keep him in the contest longer than less fortunate competitors, and the volume of media coverage he elicits is boosting his name recognition, a crucial first step.G. Elliott Morris, a political data reporter for the Economist, noted on Twitter that O’Rourke has received more cable news coverage in the five days since his announcement than any other candidate during the full post-announcement week. O’Rourke is on a path to get 180 percent of the coverage received by Bernie Sanders, the previous leader on this measure.While head-to-head polls are still in a larval stage, they do signal the demographic sources of support for the candidates.The most recent CNN poll, released on Tuesday, shows, for example, that the leader, Joe Biden, at 28 percent overall, gets more support from moderates than from liberals, more from older voters than young voters, more from men than women and more from whites than from minorities. Bernie Sanders, at 20 percent, is just the opposite, stronger among liberals, young voters, minorities and women.O’Rourke, at 11 percent, has a long way to go to catch up with either Biden or Sanders. But the CNN poll shows that O’Rourke’s supporters tend to be slightly more liberal than moderate, young rather than old, female rather than male, and O’Rourke gets more support from African-Americans and Hispanics than from whites. In other words, O’Rourke’s backing is tilted to constituencies that are not normally associated with a moderate white Democratic politician whose voting record, by party standards, is on the center-right.If these demographic patterns hold, O’Rourke is competing more directly with Sanders (and Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren) than with Biden.The Sanders-O’Rourke battle has already begun. Bernie Sanders loyalists have been challenging O’Rourke’s credentials for the past three months as both men seek support from younger voters.“Forces loyal to Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders are waging an increasingly public war against Texas Rep. Beto O’Rourke, the new darling of Democratic activists,” Jonathan Allen and Alex Seitz-Wald of NBC News wrote in December. “O’Rourke’s ability to connect with younger and progressive white voters,” they continued, “puts him in direct competition with the Vermont senator.”On Tuesday, Sanders announced that he has hired David Sirota, one of O’Rourke’s harshest critics, as a senior adviser and speechwriter. On Dec. 22, Sirota published a 1,700 word denunciation of O’Rourke in The Guardian that concluded,Another blank-slate Democrat who pretends there is a unifying third way between the 99 percent and the 1 percent and who refuses to take sides in big fights against corporate power — that may excite Betomaniacs, establishment Democrats and those with stakes in the status quo, but it won’t rescue our country and it won’t save the planet.For a candidate with only a modest record in national politics, O’Rourke faces a daunting but not necessarily insuperable challenge in securing the nomination. His candidacy will be a test of his charisma and “spark,” as Don Fowler put it — of the “decency” and “integrity” that a fair number of voters and observers have commented on — against the more substantial and detailed progressivism of his adversaries, the moderation of still others — and all the things we don’t know about him yet.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben Casselman and Jim TankersleyAlan B. Krueger, who advised two presidents and helped lead economics toward a more scientific approach to research and policymaking, was found dead on Saturday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 58.The cause was suicide, according to a statement by his family released by Princeton University, where Mr. Krueger taught for more than three decades. The Princeton police said they were called to the home on Saturday morning and found Mr. Krueger unresponsive.Mr. Krueger was an assistant secretary of the Treasury from 2009 to 2010, as President Barack Obama’s administration tried to lead the United States out of its worst recession since the Great Depression. Mr. Obama later named him chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, a post he held from 2011 to 2013. He was the Labor Department’s chief economist under President Bill Clinton from 1994 to 1995.A labor economist by training, Mr. Krueger was part of a new wave of economists who pushed the field toward a more empirical mind-set, with an emphasis on data rather than theory. He applied that approach broadly: to education, health care, labor markets and terrorism, and even to more lighthearted subjects like the rising price of concert tickets. His latest book, due out in June, is on the economics of the music industry.“He is certainly among the most — if not the most — significant labor economists and all-around empirical economists of the last three decades,” said Lawrence Katz, a Harvard economist and frequent collaborator. Mr. Krueger, he said, was one of a handful of researchers who “really changed the shape of economics and turned it into a more serious science.”Mr. Krueger was perhaps best known for his work in the early 1990s on the effects of the minimum wage, in collaboration with Mr. Katz and another economist, David Card. Standard economic thinking at the time held that raising the minimum wage would reduce employment for low-wage workers; Mr. Katz said that he and Mr. Krueger had expected to find the same. Instead, they discovered no impact on employment — a finding that has proved influential though it remains in dispute.“Even when people were saying you’re crazy as an economist, he was really willing to let the data lead where it went,” Mr. Katz said.Mr. Krueger was a young, newly tenured professor in 1994 when he was tapped by the secretary of labor, Robert B. Reich, to serve as chief economist for the department, succeeding Mr. Katz. After two years in the job, Mr. Krueger returned to Princeton and vowed never to return to government, according to a 2014 profile in a Princeton alumni magazine.But in late 2008, Mr. Krueger got a call from Timothy F. Geithner, Mr. Obama’s pick for Treasury secretary. As Mr. Krueger recalled, Mr. Geithner said: “The economy’s in a free fall. Why don’t you come to Treasury and work on big, consequential things?”“That was his line,” Mr. Krueger said. “And I couldn’t say no.”Mr. Krueger spent two years at Treasury as chief economist and assistant secretary for economic policy. Then, after a brief return to Princeton, he went back to Washington as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, where he pushed the administration to focus on issues of inequality and economic opportunity.At the White House, he developed and popularized the “Great Gatsby curve,” the notion that countries with greater inequality had lower economic mobility from generation to generation.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Obama praised Mr. Krueger as “someone who was deeper than numbers on a screen or charts on a page.”“He had a perpetual smile and a gentle spirit — even when he was correcting you,” Mr. Obama said.Alan Bennett Krueger was born on Sept. 17, 1960, and grew up in Livingston, N.J., less than 50 miles from the university where he would make his professional home. His father, Norman, was an accountant; his mother, Rhoda, taught first grade.Mr. Krueger attended Cornell University intending to become a lawyer. But while analyzing data for an undergraduate research paper, he found that he enjoyed empirical work. After graduating from Cornell in 1983, he pursued a degree in economics at Harvard University, where he earned a Ph.D. in 1987.Mr. Krueger arrived at Princeton in 1987 as an empirical revolution was dawning in the economics profession. He quickly made his own contribution, helping to found a survey research center there at a time when relatively few economists were conducting their own surveys. He pioneered the use of so-called natural experiments to study the effects of government policies.“It was the ability to be both interesting and credible — that was his great gift,” said Lawrence H. Summers, who taught Mr. Krueger at Harvard and later worked with him in the Obama administration. “That’s part of why there’ve been generations of people doing natural experiments.”Mr. Krueger’s more recent work focused on the structural reasons particular groups have struggled in the modern economy. He studied the effects of long-term unemployment in the wake of the recession, and how the opioid epidemic has pushed some workers, particularly men, out of the labor force.He also helped bring attention to companies’ use of noncompete agreements with employees as a means of holding down wages, and to occupational licensing rules as an obstacle to workers seeking better-paying careers. He proposed new rules to protect workers in the so-called gig economy, and just last week delivered a lecture at Stanford University on proposals for a universal basic income.“Economics is a social science, and Alan was someone who was really interested in the social part of it as well as the science part of it,” said Betsey Stevenson, a University of Michigan economist. “He wanted to understand how people were doing, how people were feeling.”Jason Furman, a Harvard economist who worked with Mr. Krueger on the Obama economic team and succeeded him as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said Mr. Krueger had been the rare economist who was outstanding at both research and public policy. He sometimes combined the two, to persuasive effect.In the midst of the Great Recession, Mr. Obama was weighing whether to propose a tax credit for companies that hired new workers, though he was skeptical of the idea, Mr. Furman said, because several businesses had told him that it would not sway their hiring decisions.Mr. Krueger, instead of doing a survey of research on such tax credits, used Princeton’s survey group to poll small businesses on questions relating to job creation. He then used the results to argue that the credit would subsidize job creation in a cost-effective way — even if many businesses ignored it.“I don’t think Alan knew the answer before he did the survey,” Mr. Furman said. “He found out the answer from the survey. He didn’t content himself with what was out there in the literature already.”Mr. Obama wound up embracing the proposal but could not get it through Congress.Mr. Krueger served in Democratic administrations, and his research tended to support liberal causes. But Ms. Stevenson noted that his work on occupational licensing had been influential among conservatives as well. And he was willing to reach conclusions that did not align with his policy preferences; in one such instance, his research found that poverty did not cause terrorism.His survivors include his wife, Lisa Simon Krueger, and his children, Ben and Sydney. A complete list of survivors was not immediately available.Mr. Krueger was a contributor to the Economic Scene column and the Economix blog in The New York Times.Colleagues at Princeton recalled Mr. Krueger as having a nearly boundless curiosity. Mr. Card, a frequent collaborator early in their careers, said Mr. Krueger used to pore through code books of survey questions looking for potential research questions.“He had headlights that went a lot further in the dark than anybody else,” Mr. Card said.An earlier version of this obituary misstated the year Mr. Krueger graduated from Cornell. It was 1983, not 1985.Karen Zraick contributed reporting.OpinionAlan B. Krueger and Eric PosnerOpinionAlan B. KruegerOpinionKate MurphyAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLethal partisanship is taking us into dangerous territory.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.A recent survey asked Republicans and Democrats whether they agreed with the statement that members of the opposition party “are not just worse for politics — they are downright evil.”The answers, published in January in a paper, “Lethal Mass Partisanship,” were startling, but maybe they shouldn’t have been.Just over 42 percent of the people in each party view the opposition as “downright evil.” In real numbers, this suggests that 48.8 million voters out of the 136.7 million who cast ballots in 2016 believe that members of opposition party are in league with the devil.The mass partisanship paper was written by Nathan P. Kalmoe and Lilliana Mason, political scientists at Louisiana State University and the University of Maryland.Kalmoe and Mason, taking the exploration of partisan animosity a step farther, found that nearly one out of five Republicans and Democrats agree with the statement that their political adversaries “lack the traits to be considered fully human — they behave like animals.”Their line of questioning did not stop there.How about: “Do you ever think: ‘we’d be better off as a country if large numbers of the opposing party in the public today just died’?”Some 20 percent of Democrats (that translates to 12.6 million voters) and 16 percent of Republicans (or 7.9 million voters) do think on occasion that the country would be better off if large numbers of the opposition died.We’re not finished: “What if the opposing party wins the 2020 presidential election. How much do you feel violence would be justified then?” 18.3 percent of Democrats and 13.8 percent of Republicans said violence would be justified on a scale ranging from “a little” to “a lot.”Kalmoe and Mason analyzed the data to see what kind of voter was likely to adopt extremely critical views of the opposition party: Strongly identifying with one political side is associated with increased political hostility toward opponents in terms of moral disengagement, partisan schadenfreude, and partisan violence.One personal trait stood out: “Aggression was the only factor that predicted all three types of lethal partisan attitudes.”Contrary to the expectation that the losers of elections might be more inclined to violence, the two authors determined that winning increases support for violence against the opposition.There was “significantly more support for partisan violence among strong partisans when told their party was more likely than not to win in 2020.”Overall, the authors wrote, “our evidence suggests that winning more than losing prompts strong partisans to feel less opposed to partisan violence.”As partisan hostility deepens, there is one group that might ordinarily be expected to help pull the electorate out of this morass — the most knowledgeable and sophisticated voters.According to a forthcoming study, however, it is just these voters who display the most uncritical acceptance of party orthodoxy, left or right. On both sides, the best informed voters are by far the most partisan.In “Understanding Partisan Cue Receptivity,” Bert N. Bakker and Yphtach Lelkes, professors at the Amsterdam School of Communication Research and the University of Pennsylvania, and Ariel Malka, a professor of psychology at Yeshiva University, find that knowledgeable, politically engaged voters are the most likely “to adopt issue attitudes that are cued as party-consistent in the political information environment.” In plain language, the most active voters — those notably “high in cognitive resources” — are the most willing to accept policy positions endorsed by their party, and they are doing so not out of principle, but to affirm their identity as a Democrat or Republican. They are expressing “the desire to reach conclusions that are consistent with a valued identity.”The authors call this process “identity expression” or a “tendency of partisans to adopt issue attitudes that are cued as party-consistent in the political information environment.”This willingness to adopt a policy position not out of conviction but out of a desire to conform to partisan priorities reflects an urge, they write, “to bolster and protect valued political identities by expressing and rationalizing the viewpoints cued to be consistent with these identities.”In an email, Lelkes wrote that he and his co-authors felt it important “to be careful about causal reasoning.” They concluded their article with this commentary:Ironically, reflective citizens, who are sometimes seen as ideal citizens, might be the subset of strong partisan identifiers most likely to fall in line with the party. Since higher levels of cognitive resources and partisan social identity are associated with higher levels of political activism, the effect may be self-reinforcing, wherein political elites polarize the strongly identified and cognitively reflective, who then elect more polarized elites. The democratic dilemma may not be whether low information citizens can learn what they need to know, but whether high information citizens can set aside their partisan predispositions.These two papers raise a set of basic questions about group identity: Why are partisan divisions sharpening now and are these conflicts likely to become more aggravated?Robert Kurzban, the author of “The Hidden Agenda of the Political Mind,” argues that domestic politics have taken on a moralistic, judgmental cast:There is a rise in “purity tests” for politicians, such that if they do not adopt the line of the party on core issues — especially those to do with identity politics — they are subject to round condemnation.Any deviation, Kurzban continued in an email, is likely to be severely punished: Being just a tiny bit out of step is seen as grievous a sin as being completely out of step. People are seeing others’ positions as categorical rather than continuous.Steven Pinker, a professor of psychology at Harvard, argues that it is the activation of group identity — of the friend-enemy type, about which I have written before — that is driving hostile polarization:Certainly there is a tribal flavor to political polarization. Men’s testosterone rises or falls on election night, depending on whether their side wins, just as it does on Super Bowl Sunday.But, he continued,the coalitions clustering at the poles are not tribes in the classical anthropological sense. Today’s left- and right-wingers for the most part aren’t inventing myths of shared blood and common ancestry, or binding together in ritual ordeals, or blending in appearance with a common uniform.Instead, Pinker argued,I think we’re seeing a somewhat different psychological phenomenon: dynamically sorting ourselves into coalitions defined by moralistic condemnation of designated enemies.Pinker cited the questions raised in the work of Kurzban and Peter DeScioli, a political scientist at Stony Brook, wonderingwhy so much of our moralizing does not consist in pondering how to universalize the maxim of our actions or to bring about the greatest good for the greatest number, but rather of condemning, demonizing, or scapegoating a designated sinner.DeScioli provided some answers to the question in his replies to my queries:Our coalitional psychology goes far beyond a simple distinction between us and them. We form coalitions nested within coalitions, and our loyalties can suddenly shift. Our minds keep track of other individuals’ allies and enemies in an ornate network of loyalties. Conflicts routinely occur within a group, and generally more often than against outgroups. We use aggression as a tactic both within and between groups, and we do so cautiously, weighing the costs and benefits. Our coalitional psychology is more like a Machiavellian playbook of strategies than a simple reflex of hostility toward an outgroup. Partisan hostility is certainly a form of coalitional aggression rooted in evolved strategies, but so are the prudent strategies of peace and compromise.Moral condemnation, DeScioli wrote, is aprime suspect behind partisan hostility. Moral judgment inspires outrage and a desire to punish wrongdoers, forming a potent source of aggression. I have argued that moral judgment is an evolved strategy for choosing sides in conflicts. We seek retribution not only to deter harmful behavior but also to show which side we are on in a dispute.Moral condemnation and approbation can both be useful to encourage productive cooperation within a group, but they can also be deeply destructive when used to demonize and humiliate outsiders.John Hibbing, a political scientist at the University of Nebraska, makes the case that polarization has intensified becausethe central political issues of the day revolve around in-group versus out-group, the definition of the in-group, and the unity and security of the in-group.While as recently as 30 years ago, there were a fair number of conservative Democrats and liberal Republicans who held views contrary to the majority of their respective parties, Hibbing wrote,the problem today is that there are so few cross-cutting cleavages. There is only one cleavage and it is the most evolutionarily primal cleavage of them all.Hibbing dismissed the argument that people have “become tribal because of changes in the media environment.” Instead, he wrote,people became tribal because the fundamental substantive issues today are about tribe. We are a group-based species.Kevin Smith, who is also a political scientist at the University of Nebraska, argues that humans are incredibly groupish creatures — as a species we’re pretty hard wired to make “us v them” categorizations.For much of the twentieth century, according to this line of thinking, the first world war, the Great Depression, the second world war and the Cold War filled much of the need for an in-group versus out-group configuration. During this period, Smith said, there were consensual “sources of information” and political parties “that were relatively nonideological” with many members “willing to cross the aisle to cut deals.”In recent years, “a lot of that has gone,” Smith told me. “Political parties are now deeply ideological,” which makes it easier toappeal to our “us versus them” instinct. Indeed, it makes it more and more likely that we emotionally attach ourselves to a particularly political group, remain reflexively loyal to it, and automatically denigrate anyone who disagrees with it — we are indeed hard-wired for this sort of thing and political parties have, in effect, organized themselves around, and are now appealing directly to, that part of our psychology which is, and always has been, more emotional than rational.When, if ever, will things improve? Jonathan Haidt, a psychologist at N.Y.U., is not optimistic. He emailed:I am expecting that America’s political dysfunction and anger will worsen, and will continue to worsen even after Donald Trump leaves the White House.Why?The reasons for my pessimism are that 1) social media gets ever more effective at drowning us in outrage; 2) overall trust in institutions continues to decline, which makes it seem ever more urgent that “our” side take total control; 3) the younger generations have not seen effective political institutions or norms during their lives, and also seem less adept at handling political disagreements; and 4) the norms of campus regarding call-out culture seem to be spreading quickly into business and many other institutions.Two of the most insightful people on evolved human behavior are Leda Cosmides and John Tooby, professors of psychology and anthropology at the University of California, Santa Barbara.Cosmides and Tooby explore the complexities and ambiguities of moral reasoning in their seminal essay “Groups in Mind: The Coalitional Roots of War and Morality,” which concludes on an appropriately ambiguous note:The set of evolved programs that enable and drive warfare and politics strongly overlap with the set of evolved programs that drive human morality. The mapping of these evolved programs and their embedded circuit logic is only in its infancy, and we have only sketched out some of the known or predicted features of our coalitional and moral psychologies. However, progress in this enterprise holds out the possibility of gradually throwing light on some of the darkest areas of human life.In a lengthy email that I cannot fully do justice to in this column, Tooby wrote that everybodybenefits from participating in groups of alliances and factions on different scales, and people also benefit by fractionating solidarity in such a way that those on the far side of the boundary seem undesirable, worth spurning, contemptible, deplorable.This, in turn, encourages evolved mental programs that support self-advantageous information warfare: Of all the signals an individual hears, and out of all the spontaneous thoughts that teem in our minds, each individual filters, remembers, and broadcasts what benefits her in building up herself and her allies, and downgrades those who are her rivals.Tooby added: “I think we cannot begin to appreciate how immense and all-encompassing this process is.”Tooby pointed to group pressure to adopt down the line agreement on issues when there is, in fact, much room for dissent and disagreement:There is no necessary reason why someone’s position on abortion should predict their position on global warming should predict their position on welfare should predict their position on school choice should predict their position on illegal immigration. These are all entirely logically independent, yet there is a natural tendency for alliance gravitation to pull people into sets — often binary sets — because issues are more often flags of identity, and it creates in-group dissension to have a multiplicity of views inside the group.Even more important, he writes,Honest reasoning about issues is inconsistent with group loyalty. To be a good group member, I should adhere to a position because it is the group’s position, while believing that the facts justify it.Leda Cosmides expressed some of her ideas about the connection between us-and-them thinking and evil, the topic with which I began this column, in an interview that was originally published in a Chilean newspaper in 2001 and still resonates:The world has many people with evil motives, who will twist whatever ideas are around them to their own ends. Hitler, for example, was more influenced by folk notions about “blood” (found everywhere) than by any real biological knowledge.She went on:Since the Enlightenment, people have been trying to build bridges between disciplines, and when they do, new insights are achieved and humanity benefits. Should the healing arts have been kept separate from biology? If they had, we would not have antibiotics and modern medicine. Should psychology be kept separate from biology? If it is, we will never understand how the mind works. As a result, we will never understand how to make war less likely, how to cure autism, how to help people understand risk, or how to prevent racism, to name just a few problems on which evolutionary psychologists are making progress. Indeed, if we keep psychology separate from biology, people will continue to believe that “race” is a sensible concept; in contrast, human population biology tells us that humanity is not divided into distinct “races.”This work is far from done.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall Advertisement